<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head>
<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.38.26c"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for pxe_basic version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=basic by PXE Tools 1.38.26c, partial=false-->
<title><?REGION x="54.000" y="535.570" w="131.416" h="18.000" page="153" pagename="153"?>Chapter Review </title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/theme/night.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/theme/sepia.css"/></head><body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000001FED" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000001FED" class="conclusion level1"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000001FEE" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000001FEE" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="535.570" w="131.416" h="18.000" page="153" pagename="153"?><span class="label">Chapter Review </span></h1></header>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C15" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C15"><b> Consciousness</b> is our awareness of various cognitive processes that operate in our daily lives such as sleeping, dreaming, concentrating, and making decisions. To make sense of our complex environment, we selectively choose which stimuli to absorb and we filter out the rest. Psychologists divide consciousness into two broad areas: <span class="keyword">waking consciousness,</span> which includes thoughts, feelings, and perceptions that arise when we are awake and reasonably alert; and <span class="keyword">altered states of consciousness,</span> during which our mental state differs noticeably from normal waking consciousness.</p>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000001FF0" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000001FF0" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000001FF1" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000001FF1" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="708.891" w="30.420" h="12.000" page="153" pagename="153"?>Sleep</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000001FF2" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000001FF2" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000001FF3" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000001FF3" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="727.706" w="117.078" h="9.500" page="153" pagename="153"?>Why do we need to sleep?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C16" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C16"> Nobody knows exactly why we need to sleep, although sleep appears to play an important restorative function, both physically and mentally. Getting adequate sleep boosts our immune response and cleanses the body of chemicals like adenosine, which is released when cells use energy. Sleep also appears to play a crucial role in long-term memory formation.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000001FF5" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000001FF5" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000001FF6" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000001FF6" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="631.706" w="129.879" h="9.500" page="153" pagename="153"?>What is the biological clock?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C17" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C17"> Like many other biological functions, sleep and waking follow a daily biological cycle known as a <b>circadian rhythm.</b> The human <i>biological clock</i> is governed by a tiny cluster of neurons in the brain known as the <b>suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN)</b> that regulates proteins related to metabolism and alertness. Normally, the rhythms and chemistry of the body’s cycles interact smoothly; but when we cross several time zones in one day, hormonal, temperature, and digestive cycles become desynchronized.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000001FF8" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000001FF8" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000001FF9" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000001FF9" epub:type="title"><span class="pagebreak" title="154" id="P7000493190000000000000000001FFA" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000001FFA" epub:type="pagebreak"/><?REGION x="48.000" y="51.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="154" pagename="154"?>What physical changes mark the rhythms of sleep?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C18" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C18">  Normal sleep consists of several stages. During <i>Stage 1,</i> the pulse slows, muscles relax, and the eyes move from side to side. The sleeper is easily awakened from Stage 1 sleep. In <i>Stages 2</i> and <i>3,</i> the sleeper is hard to awaken and does not respond to noise or light. Heart rate, blood pressure, and temperature continue to drop. During <i>Stage 4</i> sleep, heart and breathing rates, blood pressure, and body temperature are at their lowest points of the night. About an hour after first falling asleep, the sleeper begins to ascend through the stages back to Stage 1—a process that takes about 40 minutes. At this stage in the sleep cycle, heart rate and blood pressure increase, the muscles become more relaxed than at any other time in the cycle, and the eyes move rapidly under closed eyelids. This stage of sleep is known as <span class="keyword">rapid-eye movement (REM) sleep</span>.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000001FFD" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000001FFD" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000001FFE" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000001FFE" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="260.680" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="154" pagename="154"?>What happens when people don’t get enough sleep?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C19" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C19">  Between one-third and one-half of adults fail to get enough sleep. Among adolescents, not getting enough sleep may result in falling asleep at school. Sleep deprivation negatively affects reaction time, memory, judgment, and the ability to pay attention. Driving while sleepy is just as dangerous as driving drunk. Sleep deprivation has been associated with errors and poor performance at work leading to serious mishaps in high-risk professions such as medicine or working at a nuclear power plant. The lack of sleep also contributes to such diseases as heart attacks, asthma, strokes, high blood pressure, and diabetes and is associated with depression and being overweight. Unfortunately, people do not always know when they are not getting enough sleep.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000002000" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002000" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000002001" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002001" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="446.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="154" pagename="154"?>What is the difference between a nightmare and night <?REGION x="48.000" y="458.180" w="24.282" h="9.500" page="154" pagename="154"?>terror?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C1A" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C1A"> Sleep disorders include sleeptalking, sleepwalking, night terrors, insomnia, apnea, and narcolepsy. Most episodes of sleeptalking and sleepwalking occur during a deep stage of sleep. Unlike <span class="keyword">nightmares,</span> frightening dreams that most often occur during REM sleep and are remembered, <span class="keyword">night terrors</span> are more common among children than adults, prove difficult to be awakened from, and are rarely remembered the next morning. <a class="xref" data-href="#P7000493190000000000000000002004"><?citation type="sn" Left="MN1" Right="MN1" idref="ch04mn25"?></a><span class="keyword"><?REGION x="240.777" y="542.180" w="41.163" h="9.500" page="154" pagename="154"?>Insomnia</span> is characterized by difficulty in falling asleep or remaining asleep throughout the night. <span class="keyword">Apnea</span> is marked by breathing difficulties during the night and feelings of exhaustion during the day. <span class="keyword">Narcolepsy</span> is a hereditary sleep disorder characterized by sudden nodding off during the day and sudden loss of muscle tone following moments of emotional excitement.</p><aside class="marginalia" id="P7000493190000000000000000002004" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002004"><section class="glossary" id="P7000493190000000000000000002005" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002005" epub:type="glossary"><dl class="glossentrylist" id="P7000493190000000000000000014C1B" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C1B"><dt class="glossterm" id="P7000493190000000000000000002007" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002007" epub:type="glossterm"><dfn>insomnia</dfn></dt>
<dd class="glossdef" id="P7000493190000000000000000014C1C" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C1C" epub:type="glossdef"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C1D" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C1D">Sleep disorder characterized by difficulty in falling asleep or remaining asleep throughout the night.</p></dd></dl></section></aside></section></section>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000200A" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000200A" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000200B" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000200B" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="648.865" w="42.360" h="12.000" page="154" pagename="154"?>Dreams</h1></header>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000200C" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000200C" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000200D" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000200D" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="667.680" w="77.095" h="9.500" page="154" pagename="154"?>What are dreams?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C1E" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C1E">  <b>Dreams</b> are visual or auditory experiences that occur primarily during REM periods of sleep.  Less vivid experiences that resemble conscious thinking tend to occur during <span class="keyword">NREM</span> sleep.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000002010" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002010" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000002011" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002011" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="721.680" w="82.230" h="9.500" page="154" pagename="154"?>Why do we dream?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C1F" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C1F"> Several theories have been developed to explain the nature and content of dreams. According to Freud, dreams have two kinds of content: manifest (the surface content of the dream itself) and latent (the disguised, unconscious meaning of the dream). According to a more recent hypothesis, dreams arise out of the mind’s reprocessing of daytime information that is important to the survival of the organism. With this hypothesis, dreaming thus strengthens our memories of important information.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000002013" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002013" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000002014" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002014" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="157.865" w="156.130" h="12.000" page="154" pagename="154"?>Drug-Altered Consciousness</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000002015" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002015" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000002016" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002016" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="176.680" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="154" pagename="154"?>How is today’s drug problem different from drug use <?REGION x="315.000" y="188.680" w="141.036" h="9.500" page="154" pagename="154"?>in other societies and times?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C20" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C20"> Chemical substances that change moods and perceptions are known as <b>psychoactive drugs.</b> Although many of the psychoactive drugs available today have been used for thousands of years, the motivation for using drugs is different today. Traditionally, these drugs were used in religious rituals, as nutrient beverages, or as culturally approved stimulants. Today, most psychoactive drug use is recreational, divorced from religious or family traditions.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000002018" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002018" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000002019" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002019" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="302.680" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="154" pagename="154"?>How can we tell whether someone is dependent on a <?REGION x="315.000" y="314.680" w="102.615" h="9.500" page="154" pagename="154"?>psychoactive substance?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C21" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C21">  <span class="keyword">Substance abuse</span> is a pattern of drug use that diminishes the person’s ability to fulfill responsibilities at home, work, or school and that results in repeated use of a drug in dangerous situations or that leads to legal difficulties related to drug use. Continued abuse over time can lead to <span class="keyword">substance dependence,</span> a pattern of compulsive drug taking that is much more serious than substance abuse. It is often marked by tolerance, the need to take higher doses of a drug to produce its original effects or to prevent withdrawal symptoms. Withdrawal symptoms are the unpleasant physical or psychological effects that follow discontinuance of the psychoactive substance. When studying drug effects, most researchers use the <span class="keyword">double-blind procedure</span> in which some participants receive the active drug while others take a neutral, inactive substance called a <span class="keyword">placebo.</span> </p></section>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000201B" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000201B" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000201C" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000201C" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="512.680" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="154" pagename="154"?>Why does alcohol, a depressant, lead to higher rates <?REGION x="315.000" y="524.680" w="49.145" h="9.500" page="154" pagename="154"?>of violence?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C22" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C22"> Depressants are chemicals that slow down behavior or cognitive processes. <span class="keyword">Alcohol</span> calms down the nervous system, working like a general anesthetic. It is often experienced subjectively as a stimulant because it inhibits centers in the brain that govern critical judgment <b>(alcoholic myopia)</b> and impulsive behavior. This accounts for its involvement in a substantial proportion of violent and accidental deaths. <b>Barbiturates</b> are potentially deadly depressants, first used for their sedative and anticonvulsant properties, but today their use is limited to the treatment of such conditions as epilepsy and arthritis. The <span class="keyword">opiates</span> are highly addictive drugs such as opium, morphine, and heroin that dull the senses and induce feelings of euphoria, well-being, and relaxation. Morphine and heroin are derivatives of opium.</p></section>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000201E" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000201E" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000201F" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000201F" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="709.680" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="154" pagename="154"?>How do people tend to feel after a stimulant wears off?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C23" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C23">  <span class="keyword">Stimulants</span> are drugs that stimulate the sympathetic nervous system and produce feelings of optimism and <span class="pagebreak" title="155" id="P7000493190000000000000000002021" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002021" epub:type="pagebreak"/>boundless energy, making the potential for their abuse significant. Caffeine occurs naturally in coffee, tea, and cocoa. Considered a benign drug, in large doses caffeine can cause anxiety, insomnia, and other unpleasant conditions. Nicotine occurs naturally only in tobacco. Although it is a stimulant, it acts like a depressant when taken in large doses. <span class="keyword">Amphetamines</span> are stimulants that initially produce “rushes” of euphoria often followed by sudden “crashes” and, sometimes, depression. <b>Cocaine</b> brings on a sense of euphoria by stimulating the sympathetic nervous system, but it can also cause anxiety, depression, and addictive cravings. Its crystalline form—crack—is highly addictive.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000002022" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002022" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000002023" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002023" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="212.180" w="169.626" h="9.500" page="155" pagename="155"?>How does marijuana affect memory?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C24" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C24">  <span class="keyword">Hallucinogens</span> include drugs such as <b>LSD,</b> psilocybin, and mescaline that distort visual and auditory perception. <span class="keyword">Marijuana</span> is a mild hallucinogen capable of producing feelings of euphoria, a sense of well-being, and swings in mood from gaiety to relaxation to paranoia. Though similar to hallucinogens in certain respects, marijuana is far less potent, and its effects on consciousness are far less profound. Marijuana can disrupt memory, causing people to forget what they are talking about in midsentence.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000002025" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002025" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000002026" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002026" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="51.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="155" pagename="155"?>What combination of factors makes it more likely that <?REGION x="321.000" y="63.180" w="119.676" h="9.500" page="155" pagename="155"?>someone will abuse drugs?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C25" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C25"> A possible genetic predisposition, the person’s expectations, the social setting, and cultural beliefs and values make drug abuse more likely.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000002028" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002028" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000002029" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002029" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="115.365" w="139.319" h="12.000" page="155" pagename="155"?>Meditation and Hypnosis</h1></header>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000202A" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000202A" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000202B" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000202B" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="134.180" w="161.842" h="9.500" page="155" pagename="155"?>What are the effects of meditation?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C26" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C26"> Meditation refers to any of several methods of concentration, reflection, or focusing of thoughts intended to suppress the activity of the sympathetic nervous system. Meditation not only lowers the metabolic rate but also reduces heart and respiratory rates. Brain activity during meditation resembles that experienced during relaxed wakefulness; and the accompanying decrease in blood lactate reduces stress.</p></section>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000202D" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000202D" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000202E" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000202E" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="248.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="155" pagename="155"?>What clinical uses have been found for hypnosis?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014C27" data-uri="M04_MORR8923_11_SE_C04.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014C27">  <span class="keyword">Hypnosis</span> is a trancelike state in which the hypnotized person responds readily to suggestions. Susceptibility to hypnosis depends on how easily people can become absorbed in concentration. Hypnosis can ease the pain of certain medical conditions and can help people stop smoking and break other habits.</p></section></section></section></body></html>