<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head>
<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.38.26c"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for pxe_basic version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=basic by PXE Tools 1.38.26c, partial=false-->
<title><?REGION x="54.000" y="51.254" w="196.817" h="20.000" page="35" pagename="35"?>Careers in Psychology</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/theme/night.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/theme/sepia.css"/></head><body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000AFE" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000AFE" class="level1"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000AFF" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000AFF" epub:type="title"><span class="pagebreak" title="35" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B00" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B00" epub:type="pagebreak"/><?REGION x="54.000" y="51.254" w="196.817" h="20.000" page="35" pagename="35"?>Careers in Psychology</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B01" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B01" class="objectiveset level2"><ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist" id="P7000493190000000000000000013E77" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E77"><li class="objective" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B03" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B03"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013E78" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E78"><span class="label">LO </span><span class="number">1.16 	</span>Describe some of the career paths that are available to people who have studied psychology. Distinguish among psychiatrists, psychoanalysts, clinical psychologists, counseling psychologists, and social workers.</p></li></ol></section>
<div class="instructions" id="P7000493190000000000000000013E79" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E79"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013E7A" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E7A">What can you do with a background in psychology or with an advanced degree?</p></div>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013E7B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E7B">Some readers may be studying psychology out of general interest; others may be considering careers in psychology. What kinds of careers are open to psychology graduates? Community college graduates with associate’s degrees in psychology are well qualified for paraprofessional positions in state hospitals, mental health centers, and other human service settings. Job responsibilities may include screening and evaluating new patients, recordkeeping, and assisting in consultation sessions.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013E7C" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E7C">Graduates with bachelor’s degrees in psychology may find jobs assisting psychologists in mental health centers, vocational rehabilitation facilities, and correctional centers. They may also take positions as research assistants, teach psychology in high school, or find jobs in government or business.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013E7D" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E7D">For those who pursue advanced degrees in psychology—a master’s degree or a doctorate—career opportunities span a wide range. Many doctoral psychologists join the faculties of colleges and universities. Others work in applied fields such as school, health, industrial, commercial, and educational psychology. Nearly half of doctoral psychologists are clinicians or counselors who treat people experiencing mental, emotional, or adaptational problems. Master’s degree graduates in psychology often work as researchers at universities; in government; or for private companies. Students with a master’s degree in industrial/organizational psychology are particularly sought by large corporations to work in personnel and human resource departments, while doctoral graduates in industrial/organizational psychology are hired into management or consulting positions in industry. Other graduates work in health and education.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013E7E" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E7E">Many students who major in psychology want to become therapists. For these students, there are five main career paths:</p>
<ul id="P7000493190000000000000000000B0B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B0B"><li id="P7000493190000000000000000013E7F" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E7F"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013E80" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E80">A <i>psychiatrist</i> is a medical doctor who, in addition to 4 years of medical training, has completed 3 years of residency training in psychiatry, most of which is spent in supervised clinical practice. Psychiatrists specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of behavior disorders. In addition to providing psychotherapy, in many states, psychiatrists are the only mental health professionals who are licensed to prescribe medications.</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013E81" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E81"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013E82" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E82">A <i>psychoanalyst</i> is a psychiatrist or psychologist who has received additional specialized training in psychoanalytic theory and practice, usually at a psychoanalytic institute that requires him or her to undergo psychoanalysis before practicing.</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013E83" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E83"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013E84" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E84"><i>Clinical psychologists</i> assess and treat mental, emotional, and behavioral disorders, ranging from short-term crises to chronic disorders such as schizophrenia. They hold advanced degrees in psychology (a PhD or PsyD)—the result of a 4- to 6-year graduate program, plus a 1-year internship in psychological assessment and psychotherapy and at least 1 more year of supervised practice. With additional training, some states also permit clinical psychologists to prescribe medications for the treatment of mental disorders (see <a class="xref" href="pg0133.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005420"><?REGION x="217.737" y="621.877" w="45.998" h="9.500" page="35" pagename="35"?><span class="label">Chapter </span><span class="number">13</span></a>, “Therapies”).</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013E85" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E85"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013E86" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E86"><i>Counseling psychologists</i> help people cope with situational problems, such as adjusting to college, choosing a vocation, resolving marital problems, or dealing with the death of a loved one.</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013E87" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E87"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013E88" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E88"><i>Social workers</i> may also treat psychological problems. They typically have a master’s degree (MSW) or a doctorate (DSW). Social workers often work under the supervision of psychiatrists or clinical psychologists, although in some states they may be licensed to practice independently.</p></li></ul>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013E89" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E89">A free booklet, <i>Psychology: Scientific Problem Solvers, Careers for the Twenty-First Century</i>, is available online at <a class="ulink" href="http://www.apa.org/careers/resources/guides/careers.pdf"><?REGION x="190.544" y="741.877" w="223.456" h="9.500" page="35" pagename="35"?>www.apa.org/<wbr/>careers/<wbr/>resources/<wbr/>guides/<wbr/>careers.pdf</a> <span class="pagebreak" title="36" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B17" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B17" epub:type="pagebreak"/>Point your browser to <a class="ulink" href="http://www.apa.org/careers/resources/index.aspx"><?REGION x="292.136" y="51.180" w="188.373" h="9.500" page="36" pagename="36"?>www.apa.org/<wbr/>careers/<wbr/>resources/<wbr/>index.aspx</a> for more information about careers in psychology.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013E8A" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E8A">Two additional resources are well worth reading:</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013E8B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E8B">Eric Landrum and Stephen Davis have written an excellent book on <i>The Psychology Major: Career Options and Strategies for Success (5th edition)</i> </p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013E8C" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E8C">If you are interested in careers with a bachelor’s degree in psychology, in addition to <i>The Psychology Major</i> you will find the book <i>Finding Jobs With a Psychology Bachelor’s Degree: Expert Advice for Launching Your Career</i> by Eric Landrum very informative.</p>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000CB2F" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000CB2F" epub:type="practice" class="practice level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000CB30" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000CB30" epub:type="title"><span class="label">Writing Assignment</span></h1></header>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013E8D" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013E8D">Imagine you have been asked to create an experimental design to test the hypothesis that talking on a cell phone impairs driving skills. Explain why a control condition would be important to include in testing this hypothesis. How should subjects be assigned to conditions? How can the researchers design the experiment so that the only difference between both conditions is the use of a cell phone?</p></section></section></body></html>