<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head>
<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.38.26c"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for pxe_basic version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=basic by PXE Tools 1.38.26c, partial=false-->
<title><?REGION x="48.069" y="546.750" w="131.416" h="18.000" page="36" pagename="36"?>Chapter Review </title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/theme/night.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/theme/sepia.css"/></head><body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B46" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B46" class="conclusion level1"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B47" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B47" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.069" y="546.750" w="131.416" h="18.000" page="36" pagename="36"?><span class="label">Chapter Review </span></h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B48" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B48" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B49" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B49" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.069" y="575.086" w="112.247" h="12.000" page="36" pagename="36"?>What Is Psychology?</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B4A" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B4A" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B4B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B4B" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.069" y="593.901" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="36" pagename="36"?>“Most psychologists study mental and emotional <?REGION x="48.069" y="605.901" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="36" pagename="36"?>problems and work as psychotherapists.” Is this <?REGION x="48.069" y="617.901" w="90.497" h="9.500" page="36" pagename="36"?>statement true or false?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EB3" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EB3"><b> Psychology</b> is the scientific study of behavior and mental processes. Through its many subdivisions its proponents seek to describe and explain human thoughts, feelings, perceptions, and actions.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EB4" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EB4"><i>Developmental psychologists</i> are concerned with processes of growth and change over the life course, from the prenatal period through old age and death. <i>Physiological psychologists</i> focus on the biological basis of the body’s neural and chemical systems, studying how these affect thoughts, emotions, and behavior. <i>Experimental psychologists</i> investigate basic psychological processes, such as learning, memory, sensation, perception, cognition, motivation, and emotion. <i>Personality psychologists</i> look at the differences among people in such traits as sociability, anxiety, aggressiveness, and self-esteem. <i>Clinical</i> and <i>counseling psychologists</i> specialize in the diagnoses and treatment of psychological disorders, whereas <i>social psychologists</i> focus on how other people and social situations influence thoughts and actions. <i>Industrial</i> and <i>organizational psychologists</i> apply the principles of psychology to the workplace.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B4E" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B4E" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B4F" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B4F" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.069" y="713.086" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="36" pagename="36"?>Given the broad range of careers and interests, what <?REGION x="315.069" y="725.086" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="36" pagename="36"?>holds the subfields of psychology together as a distinct <span class="pagebreak" title="37" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B50" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B50" epub:type="pagebreak"/><?REGION x="54.000" y="51.180" w="84.492" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>scientific discipline? </h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EB5" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EB5">Five enduring issues or fundamental themes unify the various subfields of psychology:</p>
<ul id="P7000493190000000000000000000B52" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B52"><li id="P7000493190000000000000000013EB6" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EB6"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EB7" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EB7"><span class="leadin">Person–Situation:</span> To what extent is behavior caused by processes inside the person as opposed to factors outside the individual?</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013EB8" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EB8"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EB9" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EB9"><span class="leadin">Nature–Nurture:</span> How do genes and experiences interact to influence behavior?</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013EBA" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EBA"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EBB" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EBB"><span class="leadin">Stability–Change:</span> To what extent do we stay the same as we develop and how much do we change?</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013EBC" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EBC"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EBD" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EBD"><span class="leadin">Diversity–Universality:</span> In what ways do people differ in how they think and act?</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013EBE" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EBE"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EBF" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EBF"><span class="leadin">Mind–Body:</span> What is the relationship between experiences such as thoughts and feelings and biological processes?</p></li></ul></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B5D" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B5D" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B5E" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B5E" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="239.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>What does psychology have in common with other <?REGION x="54.000" y="251.180" w="35.339" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>sciences?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EC0" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EC0"> Like the other sciences, psychology relies on the <b>scientific method</b> to find answers to questions. This method involves careful observation and collection of data, the development of <b>theories</b> about relationships and causes, and the systematic testing of <b>hypotheses</b> (or predictions) to disprove invalid theories.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B60" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B60" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B61" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B61" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="332.365" w="94.679" h="12.000" page="37" pagename="37"?>Critical Thinking</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B62" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B62" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B63" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B63" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="351.180" w="197.745" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>What does it mean to “think critically”?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EC1" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EC1"> Thinking critically means that you think like a scientist. You base your beliefs on solid evidence, analyze assumptions, avoid oversimplifying, and draw conclusions carefully.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B65" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B65" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B66" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B66" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="408.365" w="145.631" h="12.000" page="37" pagename="37"?>The Growth of Psychology</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B67" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B67" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B68" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B68" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="427.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>“Psychology has a long past, but a short history.” What <?REGION x="54.000" y="439.180" w="68.066" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>does that mean?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EC2" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EC2"> The roots of psychology can be found among the Greek philosophers (particularly Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle) who first began to speculate about how the mind works, about where thoughts and feelings come from, and about the relationship between the mind and behavior. From their thinking emerged the concept of <b>dualism</b>, which holds that thoughts and feelings (the mind) are distinct from the world of real objects and our bodies.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EC3" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EC3">The 17<sup>th</sup> century witnessed renewed interest in human thought and its relationship to behavior. Rene Descartes, John Locke, Thomas Hobbes, and Charles Darwin took very different positions on the nature of the mind, the source of knowledge, and the relationship between the mind and the brain. It was not until the late 18<sup>th</sup> century that the tools of science were applied to answering such questions.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B6B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B6B" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B6C" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B6C" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="625.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>How did Wundt help to define psychology as a science <?REGION x="54.000" y="637.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>of the mind? Why did James think that sensation and <?REGION x="54.000" y="649.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>perception alone couldn’t explain behavior? Why was <?REGION x="54.000" y="661.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>Freud’s theory of the unconscious shocking at the turn <?REGION x="54.000" y="673.180" w="73.483" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>of the 20th century? </h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EC4" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EC4">Wilhelm Wundt established the first psychology laboratory in 1879 at the University of Leipzig in Germany. His use of experiment and measurement marked the beginnings of psychology as a science. One of his students, Edward Titchener, established a perspective called <b>structuralism,</b> which was based on the belief that psychology’s role was to identify the basic elements of experience and how they combine.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EC5" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EC5">In his perspective known as <b>functionalism,</b> American psychologist William James criticized structuralism, arguing that sensations cannot be separated from the mental associations that allow us to benefit from past experiences. James believed that our rich storehouse of ideas and memories is what enables us to function in our environment.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EC6" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EC6">The <b>psychodynamic theories</b> of Sigmund Freud, his colleagues, and successors added another new dimension to psychology: the idea that much of our behavior is governed by unconscious conflicts, motives, and desires.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B70" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B70" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B71" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B71" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="214.680" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>How was Watson’s approach to human behavior different <?REGION x="321.000" y="226.680" w="238.782" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>from that of Freud? How did Skinner expand behaviorism?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EC7" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EC7"> John B. Watson, a spokesman for <b>behaviorism</b>, argued that psychology should concern itself only with observable, measurable behavior. Watson based much of his work on the conditioning experiments of Ivan Pavlov.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EC8" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EC8">B. F. Skinner’s beliefs were similar to those of Watson, but he added the concept of reinforcement or reward. In this way, he made the learner an active agent in the learning process.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B74" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B74" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B75" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B75" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="342.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>How did Gestalt psychologists influence the way <?REGION x="321.000" y="354.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>we think about perception? What aspects of life do <?REGION x="321.000" y="366.180" w="136.434" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>humanistic psychologists stress?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EC9" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EC9"> According to <b>Gestalt psychology,</b> perception depends on the human tendency to see patterns, to distinguish objects from their backgrounds, and to complete pictures from a few clues. In this emphasis on wholeness, the Gestalt school differed radically from structuralism.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013ECA" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013ECA"><b>Humanistic psychology,</b> with its focus on meaning, values, and ethics, emphasizes the goal of reaching one’s fullest potential. <b>Cognitive psychology</b> is the study of mental processes in the broadest sense, focusing on how people perceive, interpret, store, and retrieve information. Unlike behaviorists, cognitive psychologists believe that mental processes can and should be studied scientifically. This view has dramatically changed American psychology from its previous behaviorist focus.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B78" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B78" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B79" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B79" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="553.680" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>Where do evolutionary psychologists look for <?REGION x="321.000" y="565.680" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>the roots of human behavior? What new focus is <?REGION x="321.000" y="577.680" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>positive psychology bringing to the study of human <?REGION x="321.000" y="589.680" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>behavior? Is there a single perspective dominating <?REGION x="321.000" y="601.680" w="65.120" h="9.500" page="37" pagename="37"?>psychology today?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013ECB" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013ECB"> Evolutionary psychology focuses on the functions and adaptive value of various human behaviors and the study of how those behaviors have evolved. <b>Positive psychology</b> studies subjective feelings of happiness and well-being; the development of individual traits such as integrity and leadership; and the settings that encourage individuals to flourish. Most contemporary psychologists do not adhere to a single school of thought. They believe that different theories can often complement one another and together enrich our understanding of human behavior.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B7B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B7B" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B7C" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B7C" epub:type="title"><span class="pagebreak" title="38" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B7D" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B7D" epub:type="pagebreak"/><?REGION x="48.000" y="51.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>What obstacles did women face in the early years of <?REGION x="48.000" y="63.180" w="53.836" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>psychology? </h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013ECC" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013ECC">Although psychology has profited from the contributions of women from its beginnings, women often faced discrimination: Some colleges and universities did not grant degrees to women, professional journals were often reluctant to publish their work, and teaching positions were often closed to them. In recent decades, the situation has changed dramatically.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B7F" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B7F" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B80" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B80" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="161.365" w="94.811" h="12.000" page="38" pagename="38"?>Human Diversity</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B81" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B81" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B82" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B82" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="180.180" w="212.001" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>Why should you learn about human diversity?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013ECD" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013ECD"> A rich diversity of behavior and thought exists in the human species, among individuals and groups. Being attuned to this diversity can help reduce the tensions that arise when people misunderstand one another. It can also help us to define what humans have in common.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B84" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B84" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B85" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B85" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="258.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>How are psychologists helping us to understand the <?REGION x="48.000" y="270.180" w="166.107" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>differences between men and women?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013ECE" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013ECE"> <b>Feminist theory</b> explores the differences and similarities in thought and behavior between the two sexes or <b>genders.</b> Culturally generated beliefs regarding these differences are called <i>gender stereotypes</i>. Psychologists are trying to determine the hereditary and cultural causes of gender differences as well as the origins of sexual orientation.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B87" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B87" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B88" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B88" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="360.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>Why are psychologists interested in racial and ethnic <?REGION x="48.000" y="372.180" w="46.008" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>differences?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013ECF" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013ECF"> <b> Race</b>, a biological term, refers to subpopulations that are genetically similar. <b>Ethnicity</b> involves a shared cultural heritage based on common ancestry, which can affect norms of behavior.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B8A" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B8A" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B8B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B8B" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="426.180" w="222.762" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>How does culture contribute to human diversity?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013ED0" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013ED0"> The intangible aspects of <b>culture</b>—the beliefs, values, traditions, and norms of behavior that a particular people share—make an important contribution to human diversity. Because many subcultural groups exist, psychology must take both inter- and cross-cultural influences into account.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B8D" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B8D" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B8E" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B8E" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="512.365" w="179.242" h="12.000" page="38" pagename="38"?>Research Methods in Psychology</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B8F" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B8F" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B90" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B90" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="531.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>What are some of the research methods that psychologists <?REGION x="48.000" y="543.180" w="69.371" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>use in their work?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013ED1" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013ED1"> Psychologists use naturalistic observation, case studies, surveys, correlational research, and experiments to study behavior and mental processes.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B92" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B92" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B93" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B93" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="585.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>Why is a natural setting sometimes better than a <?REGION x="48.000" y="597.180" w="156.353" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>laboratory for observing behavior?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013ED2" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013ED2"> Psychologists use <b>naturalistic observation</b> to study behavior in natural settings. Because there is minimal interference from the researcher, the behavior observed is likely to be more accurate, spontaneous, and varied than behavior studied in a laboratory. Researchers using this method must be careful to avoid <b>observer bias.</b> </p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B95" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B95" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B96" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B96" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="687.180" w="193.116" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>When can a case study be most useful? </h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013ED3" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013ED3">Researchers conduct a <b>case study</b> to investigate in depth the behavior of one person or a few persons. This method can yield a great deal of detailed, descriptive information that is useful for forming hypotheses, but is vulnerable to observer bias and overgeneralization of results.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B98" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B98" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B99" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B99" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="80.180" w="210.473" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>What are some of the benefits of survey research?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013ED4" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013ED4"> <b>Survey research</b> generates a large amount of data quickly and inexpensively by asking a standard set of questions of a large number of people. Great care must be taken, however, in the wording of questions and in the selection of respondents.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B9B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B9B" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B9C" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B9C" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="157.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>What is the difference between correlation and cause <?REGION x="315.000" y="169.180" w="48.847" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>and effect?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013ED5" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013ED5"> <b>Correlational research</b> investigates the relation, or correlation, between two or more variables. Although two variables may be <i>related</i> to each other, that does not imply that one <i>causes</i> the other.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000B9E" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B9E" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000B9F" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000B9F" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="222.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>What kinds of research questions are best studied by <?REGION x="315.000" y="234.180" w="95.298" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>experimental research?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013ED6" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013ED6"> An <b>experiment</b> is called for when a researcher wants to draw conclusions about cause and effect. In an experiment, the impact of one factor can be studied while all other factors are held constant. The factor whose effects are being studied is called the <span class="keyword">independent variable</span>, since the researcher is free to manipulate it at will. The factor on which there is apt to be an impact is called the <a class="keyword" id="P7000493190000000000000000000BA2" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BA2" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000006A33"><?REGION x="363.035" y="318.180" w="86.798" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>dependent variable</a>. Usually an experiment includes both an <a class="keyword" id="P7000493190000000000000000000BA3" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BA3" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000006ABB"><?REGION x="387.994" y="330.180" w="85.612" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>experimental group</a> of <b>participants</b> and a <a class="keyword" id="P7000493190000000000000000000BA4" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BA4" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000069D3"><?REGION x="322.295" y="342.180" w="59.022" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>control group</a> for comparison purposes. Often a neutral person records data and scores results, so <b>experimenter bias</b> doesn’t creep in.</p>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000637" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000637" epub:type="glossary" class="glossary level4"><dl class="glossentrylist" id="P7000493190000000000000000013ED7" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013ED7"><dt class="glossterm" id="P7000493190000000000000000000639" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000639" epub:type="glossterm"><dfn>control group</dfn></dt>
<dd class="glossdef" id="P7000493190000000000000000013ED8" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013ED8" epub:type="glossdef"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013ED9" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013ED9">In a controlled experiment, the group not subjected to a change in the independent variable; used for comparison with the experimental group.</p></dd></dl></section>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000063C" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000063C" epub:type="glossary" class="glossary level4"><dl class="glossentrylist" id="P7000493190000000000000000013EDA" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EDA"><dt class="glossterm" id="P700049319000000000000000000063E" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000063E" epub:type="glossterm"><dfn>dependent variable</dfn></dt> 
<dd class="glossdef" id="P7000493190000000000000000013EDB" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EDB" epub:type="glossdef"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EDC" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EDC">In an experiment, the variable that is measured to see how it is changed by manipulations in the independent variable.</p></dd></dl></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000646" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000646" epub:type="glossary" class="glossary level4"><dl class="glossentrylist" id="P7000493190000000000000000013EDD" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EDD"><dt class="glossterm" id="P7000493190000000000000000000648" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000648" epub:type="glossterm"><dfn>experimental group</dfn></dt>
<dd class="glossdef" id="P7000493190000000000000000013EDE" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EDE" epub:type="glossdef"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EDF" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EDF">In a controlled experiment, the group subjected to a change in the independent variable.</p></dd></dl></section>
</section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000BA5" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BA5" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000BA6" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BA6" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="383.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>What does multimethod research allow psychologists to <?REGION x="315.000" y="395.180" w="11.086" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>do?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EE0" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EE0"> Many psychologists overcome the limitations of using a single research method by using multiple methods to study a single problem.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000BA8" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BA8" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000BA9" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BA9" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="436.180" w="242.817" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>How can sampling affect the results of a research study?</h1></header>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EE1" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EE1">Regardless of the research method used, psychologists usually study a small <b>sample</b> of subjects and then generalize their results to larger populations. Proper sampling is critical to ensure that results have broader application. <b>Random samples,</b> in which each potential participant has an equal chance of being chosen, and <b>representative samples,</b> in which subjects are chosen to reflect the general characteristics of the population as a whole, are two ways of doing this.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000BAB" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BAB" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000BAC" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BAC" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="555.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>Can we generalize about research findings from one <?REGION x="315.000" y="567.180" w="75.012" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>group to another?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EE2" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EE2"> Because of differences among people based on age, sex, ethnic background, culture, and so forth, findings from studies that use White, male, American college students as participants cannot always be generalized to other groups. In addition, the gender, race, and ethnic background of a psychologist can have a biasing impact on the outcome of research.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000BAE" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BAE" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000BAF" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BAF" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="665.365" w="243.000" h="12.000" page="38" pagename="38"?>Ethics and Psychology: Research on Humans <?REGION x="315.000" y="679.365" w="64.391" h="12.000" page="38" pagename="38"?>and Animals</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000BB0" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BB0" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000BB1" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BB1" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="698.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>Are there ethical guidelines for conducting <?REGION x="315.000" y="710.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>psychological research? What objections have been <?REGION x="315.000" y="722.180" w="194.120" h="9.500" page="38" pagename="38"?>raised regarding research on animal subjects?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EE3" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EE3"> The APA <span class="pagebreak" title="39" id="P7000493190000000000000000000BB3" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BB3" epub:type="pagebreak"/>has a code of ethics for conducting research involving human participants or animal subjects. Researchers must obtain informed consent from study participants. Participants must be told in advance about the nature and possible risks of the research. People should not be pressured to participate.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EE4" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EE4">Although much of what we know about certain areas of psychology has come from animal research, the practice of experimenting on animals has strong opponents because of the pain and suffering that are sometimes involved. Although APA and the federal government have issued guidelines for the humane treatment of laboratory animals, many animal rights advocates argue that the only ethical research on animals is naturalistic observation.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000BB5" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BB5" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000BB6" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BB6" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="56.365" w="120.131" h="12.000" page="39" pagename="39"?>Careers in Psychology</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000BB7" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BB7" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000BB8" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000BB8" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="75.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="39" pagename="39"?>What can you do with a background in psychology or <?REGION x="321.000" y="87.180" w="115.554" h="9.500" page="39" pagename="39"?>with an advanced degree? </h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013EE5" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013EE5">A background in psychology is useful in a wide array of fields because so many jobs involve a basic understanding of people. Careers for those with advanced degrees in psychology include teaching, research, jobs in government and private business, and occupations in the mental health field. Opportunities in the mental health field depend on one’s degree of training. Practice in psychiatry requires medical training; practice in clinical psychology requires a doctoral degree. Positions in counseling psychology and social work are additional career options.</p></section></section></section></body></html>