<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head>
<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.38.26c"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for pxe_basic version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=basic by PXE Tools 1.38.26c, partial=false-->
<title><?REGION x="54.000" y="436.058" w="131.416" h="18.000" page="185" pagename="185"?>Chapter Review </title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/theme/night.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/theme/sepia.css"/></head><body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000258E" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000258E" class="conclusion level1"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000258F" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000258F" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="436.058" w="131.416" h="18.000" page="185" pagename="185"?><span class="label">Chapter Review </span></h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000002590" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002590" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000002591" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002591" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="464.194" w="124.366" h="12.000" page="185" pagename="185"?>Classical Conditioning</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000002592" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002592" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000002593" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002593" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="483.009" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="185" pagename="185"?>How did Pavlov discover classical conditioning?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FC1" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FC1"><b>Learning</b> is the process by which experience or practice produces a relatively permanent change in behavior or potential behavior. One basic form of learning involves learning to associate one event with another. <b>Classical conditioning</b> is a type of associative learning that Pavlov discovered while studying digestion. Pavlov trained a dog to salivate at the sound of a bell when he rang the bell just before food was given. The dog learned to associate the bell with food and began to salivate at the sound of the bell alone.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000002595" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002595" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000002596" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002596" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="619.509" w="184.524" h="9.500" page="185" pagename="185"?>How might you classically condition a pet?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FC2" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FC2"> Suppose you wanted to classically condition salivation in your own dog. You know that food is an <a class="keyword" id="P7000493190000000000000000002598" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002598" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000700F"><?REGION x="157.129" y="643.509" w="101.453" h="9.500" page="185" pagename="185"?>unconditioned stimulus</a> (US) that automatically evokes the <a class="keyword" id="P7000493190000000000000000002599" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000002599" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000700C"><?REGION x="160.176" y="655.509" w="102.978" h="9.500" page="185" pagename="185"?>unconditioned response</a> (UR) of salivation. By repeatedly pairing food with a second, initially neutral stimulus (such as a bell), the second stimulus would eventually become a <a class="keyword" id="P700049319000000000000000000259A" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000259A" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000069B2"><?REGION x="180.258" y="691.509" w="116.742" h="9.500" page="185" pagename="185"?><b>conditioned stimulus</b> (<b>CS</b>)</a> eliciting a<a class="keyword" id="P700049319000000000000000000259B" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000259B" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000069AF"><?REGION x="93.604" y="703.509" w="114.967" h="9.500" page="185" pagename="185"?> <b>conditioned response</b> (<b>CR</b>)</a> of salivation.</p></section>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000259C" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000259C" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000259D" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000259D" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="720.009" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="185" pagename="185"?>If you once burned your finger on a match while listen<?REGION x="54.000" y="732.009" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="185" pagename="185"?>ing to a certain song, why doesn’t that song now make <?REGION x="54.000" y="744.009" w="166.983" h="9.500" page="185" pagename="185"?>you reflexively jerk your hand away?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FC3" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FC3"> Establishing a classically conditioned response usually is easier if the US and CS are paired with each other repeatedly, rather than a single time or even once in a while (<b>intermittent pairing</b>). That is why a single burn to your finger is not usually enough to produce a classically conditioned response. It is also important that the spacing of pairings be neither too far apart nor too close together.</p></section>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000259F" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000259F" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025A0" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025A0" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="555.694" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="185" pagename="185"?>What is an example of classical conditioning in your <?REGION x="321.000" y="567.694" w="39.209" h="9.500" page="185" pagename="185"?>own life?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FC4" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FC4"> <span>In the case of Little Albert, Watson conditioned a child to fear white rats by always pairing a loud, frightening noise with a rat.</span> Perhaps you have acquired a classically conditioned fear or anxiety (to the sound of a dentist’s drill, for instance) <span>in much the same way</span>; or perhaps you have also unlearned a conditioned fear by repeatedly pairing the feared object with something pleasant. Mary Cover Jones paired the sight of a feared rat (at gradually decreasing distances) with a child’s pleasant experience of eating candy. This procedure was the precursor to <b>desensitization therapy.</b> </p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025A2" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025A2" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025A3" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025A3" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="707.194" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="185" pagename="185"?>Why are people more likely to develop a phobia of <?REGION x="321.000" y="719.194" w="104.994" h="9.500" page="185" pagename="185"?>snakes than of flowers?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FC5" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FC5"> The concept of <b>preparedness</b> accounts for the fact that certain conditioned responses are acquired very easily. The ease with which we develop <span class="pagebreak" title="186" id="P70004931900000000000000000025A5" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025A5" epub:type="pagebreak"/><b>conditioned taste aversions</b> illustrates preparedness. Because animals are biologically prepared to learn them, conditioned taste aversions can occur with only one pairing of the taste of a tainted food and later illness, even when there is a lengthy interval between eating the food and becoming ill. A fear of snakes may also be something that humans are prepared to learn.</p></section></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025A6" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025A6" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025A7" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025A7" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="147.365" w="121.175" h="12.000" page="186" pagename="186"?>Operant Conditioning</h1></header>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025A8" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025A8" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025A9" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025A9" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="166.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>How are operant behaviors different from the responses <?REGION x="48.000" y="178.180" w="151.838" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>involved in classical conditioning?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FC6" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FC6"> <b>Operant</b> or <b>instrumental conditioning</b> is learning to make or withhold a certain response because of its consequences. <b>Operant behaviors</b> are different from the responses involved in classical conditioning because they are voluntarily emitted, whereas those involved in classical conditioning are elicited by stimuli.</p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025AB" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025AB" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025AC" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025AC" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="268.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>What two essential elements are involved in operant <?REGION x="48.000" y="280.180" w="56.277" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>conditioning?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FC7" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FC7"> One essential element in operant conditioning is an operant behavior, or a behavior performed by one’s own volition while “operating” on the environment. The second essential element is a consequence associated with that operant behavior. When a consequence increases the likelihood of an operant behavior’s being emitted, it is called a <b>reinforcer.</b> When a consequence decreases the likelihood of an operant behavior, it is called a <b>punisher.</b> These relationships are the basis of the <b>law of effect,</b> or <b>principle of reinforcement:</b> Consistently rewarded behaviors are likely to be repeated, whereas consistently punished behaviors are likely to be suppressed.</p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025AE" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025AE" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025AF" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025AF" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="442.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>How might an animal trainer teach a tiger to jump <?REGION x="48.000" y="454.180" w="116.684" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>through a flaming hoop?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FC8" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FC8"> To speed up establishing an operantly conditioned response in the laboratory, the number of potential responses may be reduced by restricting the environment, as in a <b>Skinner box.</b> For behaviors outside the laboratory, which cannot be controlled so conveniently, the process of <b>shaping</b> is often useful. In shaping, reinforcement is given for successive approximations to the desired response. An animal trainer might use shaping to teach a tiger to jump through a flaming hoop.</p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025B1" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025B1" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025B2" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025B2" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="580.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>What is the difference between positive and negative <?REGION x="48.000" y="592.180" w="60.847" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>reinforcement?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FC9" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FC9"> What are some of the unintentional effects that reinforcement can have? Several kinds of reinforcers strengthen or increase the likelihood of behavior. <b>Positive reinforcers</b> (such as food) add something rewarding to a situation. <b>Negative reinforcers</b> (for example, stopping an electric shock) subtracts something unpleasant. When an action is followed closely by a reinforcer, we tend to repeat the action, even if it did not actually produce the reinforcement. Such behaviors are called <i>superstitious.</i> </p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025B4" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025B4" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025B5" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025B5" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="706.180" w="180.530" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>What problems can punishment create?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FCA" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FCA">  <b>Punishment</b> is any unpleasant consequence that decreases the likelihood that the preceding behavior will recur. Whereas negative reinforcement strengthens behavior, punishment weakens it. Although punishment can be effective, it also can stir up negative feelings and serve to model aggressive behavior. Also, rather than teaching a more desirable response, it only suppresses an undesirable one. After punishment has occurred a few times, further repetitions sometimes are unnecessary because the threat of punishment is enough.</p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025B7" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025B7" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025B8" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025B8" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="154.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>In what ways do some college students exhibit learned <?REGION x="315.000" y="166.180" w="54.862" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>helplessness?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FCB" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FCB"> When people or other animals are unable to escape from a punishing situation, they may acquire a “giving-up” response, called learned helplessness. <b>Learned helplessness</b> can generalize to new situations, causing resignation in the face of unpleasant outcomes, even when the outcomes can be avoided. A college student who gives up trying to do well in school after a few poor grades on tests is exhibiting learned helplessness.</p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025BA" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025BA" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025BB" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025BB" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="269.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>How can operant conditioning be used to control bio<?REGION x="315.000" y="281.180" w="83.324" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>logical functioning?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FCC" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FCC"> When operant conditioning is used to control biological functions, such as blood pressure or heart rate, it is referred to as <b>biofeedback.</b> When it is used to control brain waves, it is called <b>neurofeedback.</b> Biofeedback and neurofeedback have been successfully applied to a variety of medical problems, including migraine headaches, hypertension, and asthma. Biofeedback has also been used by athletes and musicians to improve performance and control anxiety.</p></section></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025BD" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025BD" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025BE" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025BE" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="403.365" w="221.553" h="12.000" page="186" pagename="186"?>Factors Shared by Classical and Operant <?REGION x="315.000" y="417.365" w="66.659" h="12.000" page="186" pagename="186"?>Conditioning</h1></header>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025BF" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025BF" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025C0" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025C0" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="436.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>Can you think of any similarities between classi<?REGION x="315.000" y="448.180" w="132.560" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>cal and operant conditioning?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FCD" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FCD"> Despite the differences between classical and operant conditioning, these two forms of learning have many things in common. (1) Both cases involve learned associations; (2) in both cases, responses come under control of stimuli in the environment; (3) in both cases, the responses will gradually disappear if they are not periodically renewed; and (4) in both cases, new behaviors can build upon previously established ones.</p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025C2" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025C2" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025C3" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025C3" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="562.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>How can changes in the timing of a conditioned stimu<?REGION x="315.000" y="574.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>lus lead to unexpected learning? Why does intermittent <?REGION x="315.000" y="586.180" w="221.226" h="9.500" page="186" pagename="186"?>reinforcement result in such persistent behavior?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FCE" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FCE"> In both classical and operant conditioning, an “if–then” relationship, or contingency, exists either between two stimuli or between a stimulus and a response. In both these kinds of learning, perceived contingencies are very important.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FCF" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FCF"> In classical conditioning, the contingency is between the CS and the US. The CS comes to be viewed as a signal that the US is about to happen. For that reason, the CS must not only occur in close proximity to the US, but must also precede the US and provide predictive information about it. If the CS occurs <i>after</i> the US, it will come to serve as a signal that the US is over, not that the US is imminent.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FD0" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FD0"><span class="pagebreak" title="187" id="P70004931900000000000000000025C7" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025C7" epub:type="pagebreak"/> In operant conditioning, contingencies exist between responses and consequences. Contingencies between responses and rewards are called <b>schedules of reinforcement.</b>  <i>Partial reinforcement,</i> in which rewards are given only for some correct responses, generates behavior that persists longer than that learned by <i>continuous reinforcement.</i> A <a class="keyword" id="P70004931900000000000000000025C8" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025C8" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000006AE8"><?REGION x="144.089" y="123.180" w="104.258" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>fixed-interval schedule</a>, by which reinforcement is given for the first correct response after a fixed time period, tends to result in a flurry of responding right before a reward is due. A <a class="keyword" id="P70004931900000000000000000025C9" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025C9" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007018"><?REGION x="223.186" y="159.180" w="73.814" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>variable-interval <?REGION x="54.000" y="171.180" w="34.427" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>schedule</a>, which reinforces the first correct response after an unpredictable period of time, tends to result in a slow, but steady pattern of responding. In a <i>fixed-ratio schedule,</i> behavior is rewarded after a fixed number of correct responses, so the result is usually a high rate of responding. Finally, a <a class="keyword" id="P70004931900000000000000000025CA" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025CA" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000701B"><?REGION x="169.925" y="231.180" w="104.164" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>variable-ratio schedule</a> provides reinforcement after a varying number of correct responses. It encourages a high rate of response that is especially persistent.</p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025CB" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025CB" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025CC" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025CC" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="285.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>Can you ever get rid of a conditioned response? Under <?REGION x="54.000" y="297.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>what circumstances might old learned associations sud<?REGION x="54.000" y="309.180" w="63.520" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>denly reappear?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FD1" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FD1"> Learned responses sometimes weaken and may even disappear, a phenomenon called <b>extinction.</b> The learning is not necessarily completely forgotten, however. Sometimes a <b>spontaneous recovery</b> occurs, in which the learned response suddenly reappears on its own, with no retraining.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FD2" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FD2"> Extinction is produced in classical conditioning by failure to continue pairing the CS and the US. The CS no longer serves as a signal that the US is about to happen, and so the conditioned response dies out. An important contributing factor is often new, learned associations that interfere with the old one. In situations in which you are reminded of the old association, spontaneous recovery may occur.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FD3" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FD3"> Extinction occurs in operant conditioning when reinforcement is withheld until the learned response is no longer emitted. The ease with which an operantly conditioned behavior is extinguished varies according to several factors: the strength of the original learning, the variety of settings in which learning took place, and the schedule of reinforcement used during conditioning.</p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025D0" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025D0" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025D1" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025D1" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="555.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>How can anxiety about math in grade school affect a col<?REGION x="54.000" y="567.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>lege student? Why do people often slap the wrong card <?REGION x="54.000" y="579.180" w="147.710" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>when playing a game of slapjack?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FD4" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FD4"> When conditioned responses are influenced by surrounding cues in the environment, <b>stimulus control</b> occurs. The tendency to respond to cues that are similar, but not identical, to those that prevailed during the original learning is known as <b>stimulus generalization.</b> An example of stimulus generalization in classical conditioning is a student’s feeling anxious about studying math in college because he or she had a bad experience learning math in grade school. <b>Stimulus discrimination</b> enables learners to perceive differences among cues so as not to respond to all of them.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FD5" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FD5"> In operant conditioning, the learned response is under the control of whatever cues come to be associated with delivery of reward or punishment. Learners often generalize about these cues, responding to others that are broadly similar to the ones that prevailed during the original learning. An example is slapping any face card in a game of slapjack. Learners may also generalize their responses by performing behaviors that are similar to the ones that were originally reinforced. This result is called <b>response generalization.</b> Discrimination in operant conditioning is taught by reinforcing only a certain response and only in the presence of a certain stimulus.</p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025D4" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025D4" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025D5" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025D5" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="166.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>How might you build on a conditioned response to <?REGION x="321.000" y="178.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>make an even more complex form of learning? Why <?REGION x="321.000" y="190.180" w="220.552" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>is money such a good reinforcer for most people?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FD6" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FD6"> In both classical and operant conditioning, original learning serves as a building block for new learning. In classical conditioning, an earlier CS can be used as an US for further training. For example, Pavlov used the bell to condition his dogs to salivate at the sight of a black square. This effect, which is called <b>higher-order conditioning,</b> is difficult to achieve because of extinction. Unless the original unconditioned stimulus is presented occasionally, the initial conditioned response will die out.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FD7" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FD7"> In operant conditioning, initially neutral stimuli can become reinforcers by being associated with other reinforcers. A <b>primary reinforcer</b> is one that, like food and water, is rewarding in and of itself. A <b>secondary reinforcer</b> is one whose value is learned through its association with primary reinforcers or with other secondary reinforcers. Money is such a good secondary reinforcer because it can be exchanged for so many different primary and secondary rewards.</p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025D8" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025D8" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025D9" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025D9" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="425.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>Does operant conditioning ever look like classical con<?REGION x="321.000" y="437.180" w="40.374" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>ditioning?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FD8" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FD8"> Despite their differences, classical and operant conditioning share many similarities: Both involve associations between stimuli and responses; both are subject to extinction and spontaneous recovery as well as generalization and discrimination; in both, new learning can be based on original learning. Operant conditioning can even be used, in <b>biofeedback</b> and <b>neurofeedback</b> training, to learn to control physiological responses that are usually learned through classical conditioning. Many psychologists now wonder whether classical and operant conditioning aren’t just two ways of bringing about the same kind of learning.</p></section></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025DB" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025DB" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025DC" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025DC" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="596.365" w="105.311" h="12.000" page="187" pagename="187"?>Cognitive Learning</h1></header>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025DD" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025DD" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025DE" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025DE" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="615.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>How would you study the kind of learning that occurs <?REGION x="321.000" y="627.180" w="238.782" h="9.500" page="187" pagename="187"?>when you memorize the layout of a chessboard?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FD9" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FD9">  <b>Cognitive learning</b> refers to the mental processes that go on inside us when we learn. Some kinds of learning, such as memorizing the layout of a chessboard, seem to be purely cognitive, because the learner does not appear to be “behaving” while the learning takes place. Cognitive learning, however, can always affect future behavior, such as reproducing the layout of a memorized chessboard after it is cleared away. It is from such observable behavior that cognitive learning is inferred.</p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025E0" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025E0" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025E1" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025E1" epub:type="title"><span class="pagebreak" title="188" id="P70004931900000000000000000025E2" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025E2" epub:type="pagebreak"/><?REGION x="48.000" y="51.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="188" pagename="188"?>Did you learn your way around campus solely through <?REGION x="48.000" y="63.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="188" pagename="188"?>operant conditioning (rewards for correct turns, pun<?REGION x="48.000" y="75.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="188" pagename="188"?>ishments for wrong ones) or was something more <?REGION x="48.000" y="87.180" w="27.977" h="9.500" page="188" pagename="188"?>involved?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FDA" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FDA"> <b>Latent learning</b> is any learning that has not yet been demonstrated in behavior. Your knowledge of psychology is latent if you have not yet displayed it in what you say, write, and do. One kind of latent learning is knowledge of spatial layouts and relationships, which is usually stored in the form of a <a class="keyword" id="P70004931900000000000000000025E4" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025E4" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000697C"><?REGION x="187.456" y="147.180" w="61.647" h="9.500" page="188" pagename="188"?>cognitive map</a>. Rewards or punishments aren’t essential for latent learning to take place. You did not need rewards and punishments to learn the layout of your campus, for example. You acquired this cognitive map simply by storing your visual perceptions.</p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025E5" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025E5" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025E6" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025E6" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="212.180" w="231.438" h="9.500" page="188" pagename="188"?>Do you have a learning set for writing a term paper?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FDB" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FDB"> A <b>learning set</b> is a concept or procedure that provides a key to solving a problem even when its demands are slightly different from those of problems you have solved in the past. As a student, you probably have a learning set for writing a term paper that allows you successfully to develop papers on many different topics. A learning set can sometimes encourage insight or the sudden perception of a solution even to a problem that at first seems totally new. In this case, you are perceiving similarities between old and new problems that weren’t initially apparent.</p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025E8" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025E8" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025E9" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025E9" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="51.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="188" pagename="188"?>Why would it be harder to learn to drive a car if you <?REGION x="315.000" y="63.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="188" pagename="188"?>had never been in one before? Why is it hard for <?REGION x="315.000" y="75.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="188" pagename="188"?>deaf children to learn spoken language when they <?REGION x="315.000" y="87.180" w="228.475" h="9.500" page="188" pagename="188"?>can easily be reinforced for correct speech sounds?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FDC" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FDC">  <b>Social learning theorists</b> argue that we learn much by observing other people who model a behavior or by simply hearing about something. This process is called <b>observational</b> (or <b>vicarious</b>) <b>learning.</b> It would be harder to learn to drive a car without ever having been in one because you would lack a model of “driving behavior.” It is hard for deaf children to learn spoken language because they have no auditory model of correct speech.</p><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FDD" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FDD"> The extent to which we imitate behaviors learned through observation depends on our motivation to do so. One important motivation is any reward or punishment that we have seen the behavior bring. When a consequence isn’t experienced firsthand, but only occurs to other people, it is called <b>vicarious reinforcement or vicarious punishment.</b> </p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000025EC" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025EC" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000025ED" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000025ED" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="284.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="188" pagename="188"?>Are nonhuman animals capable of cognitive learn<?REGION x="315.000" y="296.180" w="14.250" h="9.500" page="188" pagename="188"?>ing?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000014FDE" data-uri="M05_MORR8923_11_SE_C05.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000014FDE"> Research has shown that many animals, including chimpanzees, dolphins, whales, rats, octopi, and even bumblebees are capable of various forms of cognitive learning.</p></section></section></section></body></html>