<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head>
<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.38.26c"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for pxe_basic version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=basic by PXE Tools 1.38.26c, partial=false-->
<title><?REGION x="198.000" y="202.480" w="155.017" h="20.000" page="20" pagename="20"?>Human Diversity</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/theme/night.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/theme/sepia.css"/></head><body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000008B6" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008B6" class="level1"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000008B7" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008B7" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="198.000" y="202.480" w="155.017" h="20.000" page="20" pagename="20"?>Human Diversity</h1></header>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000008B8" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008B8" class="objectiveset level2"><ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist" id="P7000493190000000000000000013CEE" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CEE"><li class="objective" id="P70004931900000000000000000008BA" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008BA"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013CEF" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CEF"><span class="label">LO </span><span class="number">1.11 	</span>Discuss the ways in which knowledge and awareness of human diversity can and does inform and enrich psychological study.</p></li></ol></section>
<div class="instructions" id="P7000493190000000000000000013CF0" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CF0"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013CF1" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CF1">Why should you learn about human diversity?</p></div>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013CF2" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CF2">In the early 20<sup>th</sup> century, the great majority of research studies were conducted by White male professors at American universities, using White male American college students as participants. This arrangement was not a conscious or deliberate decision to study just one particular group. As in the medical community and in other sciences and prestigious professions in Europe and North America, psychology took for granted that what was true of White Western males would be true for other people as well. One critical history of psychology during this period was entitled <i>Even the Rat Was White!</i> (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000076D7"><?REGION x="485.199" y="352.103" w="54.567" h="9.500" page="20" pagename="20"?>Guthrie, 1976</a>).</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013CF3" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CF3">For students like you, however, understanding human diversity is essential. Our major cities are home to people from diverse backgrounds, with diverse values and goals, living side by side. But proximity does not always produce harmony; sometimes it leads to aggression, prejudice, and conflict. Understanding cultural, racial, ethnic, and gender differences in thinking and behavior gives us the tools to reduce some of these interpersonal tensions. Looking at human diversity from a scientific perspective will allow you to separate fact from fiction in your daily interactions. Moreover, once you understand how and why groups differ in their values, behaviors, approaches to the world, thought processes, and responses to situations, you will be better able to savor the diversity around you. Finally, the more you comprehend human diversity, and realize that the vast majority of the world’s population lives in conditions very different than those experienced by Americans, the more you will appreciate the many universal features of humanity such as those cited by the anthropologist <a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000727A"><?REGION x="315.997" y="520.103" w="91.294" h="9.500" page="20" pagename="20"?>Donald Brown (1991)</a>.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013CF4" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CF4">The process of examining and overcoming past assumptions and biases has been slow and uneven, but a new appreciation of human diversity is taking shape (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000073D6"><?REGION x="533.348" y="544.103" w="24.652" h="9.500" page="20" pagename="20"?>Crisp, <?REGION x="198.000" y="556.103" w="13.823" h="9.500" page="20" pagename="20"?>2010</a>; <a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007581"><?REGION x="222.198" y="556.103" w="45.392" h="9.500" page="20" pagename="20"?>Fiske, 2010</a>; <a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007770"><?REGION x="273.358" y="556.103" w="49.354" h="9.500" page="20" pagename="20"?>Herek, 2010</a>; <a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007B5C"><?REGION x="328.480" y="556.103" w="138.362" h="9.500" page="20" pagename="20"?>Medin, Bennis, &amp; Chandler, 2010</a>; <a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000080CA"><?REGION x="472.610" y="556.103" w="79.994" h="9.500" page="20" pagename="20"?>van de Vijver, 2013</a>). Psychologists have begun to question assumptions that are explicitly based on gender, race, and culture. Are women more likely than men to help a person in distress? Are African Americans more vulnerable to certain types of mental illness than are European Americans, or vice versa? Do the Japanese view children’s ability to learn in the same way Americans do? Do homosexuals have different motives and emotions than heterosexuals? Research indicates that the answer to such questions often is “no.”</p>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000008C1" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008C1" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000008C2" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008C2" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="198.000" y="650.110" w="49.259" h="15.000" page="20" pagename="20"?>Gender</h1></header>
<div class="instructions" id="P7000493190000000000000000013CF5" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CF5"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013CF6" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CF6">How are psychologists helping us to understand the differences between men and women?</p></div>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013CF7" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CF7">Gender has many layers. The words <i>male</i> and <i>female</i> refer to one’s biological makeup, the physical and genetic facts of being one sex or the other. Some scientists use the term <i>sex</i> to refer exclusively to biological differences in anatomy, genetics, or physical functioning, and <a class="keyword" id="P70004931900000000000000000008C6" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008C6" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000006B3F"><?REGION x="272.446" y="739.103" w="30.257" h="9.500" page="20" pagename="20"?>gender</a><a class="xref" id="P70004931900000000000000000008C7" data-href="#P70004931900000000000000000008C9" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008C7"/> to refer to the psychological and social meanings attached <span class="pagebreak" title="21" id="P70004931900000000000000000008C8" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008C8" epub:type="pagebreak"/>to being biologically male or female. Because distinguishing what is biologically produced from what is socially influenced is almost impossible, in our discussion of these issues, we will use the terms <i>sex</i> and <i>gender</i> interchangeably.</p>
<aside class="marginalia" id="P70004931900000000000000000008C9" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008C9"><section class="glossary" id="P70004931900000000000000000008CA" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008CA" epub:type="glossary"><dl class="glossentrylist" id="P7000493190000000000000000013CF8" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CF8"><dt class="glossterm" id="P70004931900000000000000000008CC" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008CC" epub:type="glossterm"><dfn>gender</dfn></dt>
<dd class="glossdef" id="P7000493190000000000000000013CF9" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CF9" epub:type="glossdef"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013CFA" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CFA">The psychological and social meanings attached to being biologically male or female.</p></dd></dl></section></aside><section id="P70004931900000000000000000008CF" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008CF" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000008D0" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008D0" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="92.480" w="110.175" h="9.500" page="21" pagename="21"?>Gender Stereotypes</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013CFB" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CFB">In the past, men and women led very different lives. Today, women in many societies are as likely as men to obtain higher education; to work full-time, pursue careers, start businesses; and to be active in politics. And men are more likely to be more active parents and homemakers than their fathers were. Yet, stereotypes about how the “typical male” or “typical female” looks and acts still lead to confusion and misunderstandings between the sexes. In general, our culture promotes the idea that men are dominant, strong, and aggressive, whereas women are accommodating, emotional, and affectionate. As a result, many boys learn to hide their emotions, to deny feelings of weakness even to themselves, and to fight. Many girls, by contrast, learn to hide their ambitions, to deny their talents and strengths even to themselves, and perhaps to give in. Stereotypes are rarely benign. As we will see in <a class="xref" href="pg0087.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000003AF1"><?REGION x="82.444" y="224.480" w="42.698" h="9.500" page="21" pagename="21"?><span class="label">Chapter </span><span class="number">9</span></a>, “Life-Span Development,” the negative effects of these particular stereotypes on both boys and girls are significant and lasting.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013CFC" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CFC">Beyond our stereotypes about what males and females “typically” are like, we have general beliefs about gender roles—that is, cultural expectations regarding acceptable behavior and activities for males and females, respectively. As a rule, cultural norms change more slowly than behavior patterns. Although most modern American families depend on two salaries, the assumption that the husband should be the chief breadwinner and the wife should put her home and children first remains powerful. Working wives and mothers work a “second shift” (keeping house and caring for children) at home—as much because they feel that doing so is their responsibility and area of expertise, as because their husbands still expect them to do so (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007479"><?REGION x="343.564" y="344.480" w="70.436" h="9.500" page="21" pagename="21"?>Dillaway &amp; Paré, <?REGION x="54.000" y="356.480" w="14.079" h="9.500" page="21" pagename="21"?>2008</a>; <a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000793C"><?REGION x="77.408" y="356.480" w="55.707" h="9.500" page="21" pagename="21"?>Konishi, 2010</a>).</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013CFD" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CFD">The study of gender similarities and differences has become part of mainstream psychology. Psychologists in virtually every subfield conduct research to determine whether their findings apply equally to males and females, and if not, why not. As we will see, <a class="keyword" id="P70004931900000000000000000008D4" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008D4" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000006AD9"><?REGION x="90.470" y="404.480" w="66.756" h="9.500" page="21" pagename="21"?>feminist theory</a> is not for women only.<a class="xref" id="P70004931900000000000000000008D5" data-href="#P70004931900000000000000000008D6" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008D5"/></p>
<aside class="marginalia" id="P70004931900000000000000000008D6" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008D6"><section class="glossary" id="P70004931900000000000000000008D7" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008D7" epub:type="glossary"><dl class="glossentrylist" id="P7000493190000000000000000013CFE" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CFE"><dt class="glossterm" id="P70004931900000000000000000008D9" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008D9" epub:type="glossterm"><dfn>feminist theory</dfn></dt>
<dd class="glossdef" id="P7000493190000000000000000013CFF" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013CFF" epub:type="glossdef"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D00" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D00">Feminist theories offer a wide variety of views on the social roles of women and men, the problems and rewards of those roles, and prescriptions for changing those roles.</p></dd></dl></section></aside></section><section id="P70004931900000000000000000008DC" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008DC" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000008DD" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008DD" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="421.780" w="113.696" h="9.500" page="21" pagename="21"?>Feminist Psychology</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D01" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D01">As the number of female psychologists has grown in recent decades (see <b><a class="xref" href="pg0013.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000869"><?REGION x="137.186" y="433.780" w="42.121" h="9.500" page="21" pagename="21"?><span class="label">Figure </span><span class="number">1.1</span></a></b>), so have their concerns about traditional psychological theories, research, and clinical practices (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007166"><?REGION x="225.012" y="445.780" w="50.387" h="9.500" page="21" pagename="21"?>Basow, 2010</a>; <a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007DE4"><?REGION x="280.738" y="445.780" w="45.694" h="9.500" page="21" pagename="21"?>Robb, 2006</a>). Feminist psychologists such as Carol Gilligan make three main points. As we have noted, much of the research supporting key psychological theories, such as moral development, was based on all-male samples. Second, reports of gender differences tend to focus on the extremes, exaggerating small differences and ignoring much greater similarities. Third, the questions that psychologists ask and the topics that they study reflect what they consider to be important; male and female psychologists differ to some extent in that regard.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D02" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D02">Beyond research and theory, contemporary feminist psychology has begun to influence every facet of psychological practice by seeking mechanisms to empower women in the community, by advocating action to establish policies that advance equality and social justice, and by increasing women’s representation in global leadership. Feminists also took the lead in urging other psychologists to recognize sexual orientation as simply another aspect of human diversity.</p></section>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000008E0" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008E0" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000008E1" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008E1" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="606.980" w="107.938" h="9.500" page="21" pagename="21"?>Sexual Orientation</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D03" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D03">The term <a class="keyword" id="P70004931900000000000000000008E3" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008E3" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000006F0F"><?REGION x="214.016" y="606.980" w="81.008" h="9.500" page="21" pagename="21"?>sexual orientation</a> <a class="xref" id="P70004931900000000000000000008E4" data-href="#P70004931900000000000000000008E5" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008E4"/>refers to whether a person is sexually attracted to members of the opposite sex (heterosexuality), the same sex (homosexuality), or both sexes (bisexuality). Division 44 of the American Psychological Association, “Society for the Psychological Study of Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Issues,” was founded in 1985 to promote research and education regarding sexual orientation, for psychologists as well as the general public. Psychologists have only just begun to investigate the many sensitive issues associated with this dimension of human diversity—including such topics as the origins of sexual orientation, brain differences between heterosexual and homosexual men, discrimination and aggression toward people with different sexual orientations (<?REGION x="57.306" y="726.980" w="51.792" h="9.500" page="21" pagename="21"?>Nadal, 2011), and the ethical issues that may arise if genes that influence sexual orientation are identified.</p>
<aside class="marginalia" id="P70004931900000000000000000008E5" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008E5"><section class="glossary" id="P70004931900000000000000000008E6" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008E6" epub:type="glossary"><dl class="glossentrylist" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D04" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D04"><dt class="glossterm" id="P70004931900000000000000000008E8" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008E8" epub:type="glossterm"><dfn>sexual orientation</dfn></dt>
<dd class="glossdef" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D05" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D05" epub:type="glossdef"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D06" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D06">Refers to the direction of one’s sexual interest toward members of the same sex, the other sex, or both sexes.</p></dd></dl></section></aside></section></section><section id="P70004931900000000000000000008EC" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008EC" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000008ED" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008ED" epub:type="title"><span class="pagebreak" title="22" id="P70004931900000000000000000008EB" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008EB" epub:type="pagebreak"/>Race and Ethnicity</h1></header>
<div class="instructions" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D07" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D07"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D08" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D08">Why are psychologists interested in racial and ethnic differences?</p></div>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D09" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D09"><a class="keyword" id="P70004931900000000000000000008F1" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008F1" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000006E60"><?REGION x="198.000" y="91.173" w="19.893" h="9.500" page="22" pagename="22"?>Race</a> is a biological term used to refer to a subpopulation whose members have reproduced exclusively among themselves and therefore are genetically similar and distinct from other members of the same species. Most people simply take for granted the idea that the human species can be divided into a number of distinct races (Asians, Africans, Caucasians, Native Americans, and so on). However, human beings have migrated, intermarried, and commingled so frequently over time that it is impossible to identify biologically separate races. Moreover, the criteria people use to differentiate among different races are arbitrary. In the United States, we assign people to different races primarily on the basis of skin color and facial features. In central Africa, members of the Tutsi and Hutu tribes see themselves as different races, although they are similar in skin color and facial features. In spite of these different definitions, most people continue to believe that racial categories are meaningful; and as a result, race shapes people’s social identities, their sense of self, their experiences in their own and other societies, and even their health.<a class="xref" id="P70004931900000000000000000008F2" data-href="#P70004931900000000000000000008F3" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008F2"/></p>
<aside class="marginalia" id="P70004931900000000000000000008F3" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008F3"><section class="glossary" id="P70004931900000000000000000008F4" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008F4" epub:type="glossary"><dl class="glossentrylist" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D0A" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D0A"><dt class="glossterm" id="P70004931900000000000000000008F6" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008F6" epub:type="glossterm"><dfn>race</dfn></dt>
<dd class="glossdef" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D0B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D0B" epub:type="glossdef"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D0C" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D0C">A subpopulation of a species, defined according to an identifiable characteristic (that is, geographic location, skin color, hair texture, genes, facial features, and so forth).</p></dd></dl></section></aside><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D0D" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D0D">Whereas racial categories are based on physical differences, <a class="keyword" id="P70004931900000000000000000008FA" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008FA" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000006AA9"><?REGION x="469.695" y="247.173" w="38.512" h="9.500" page="22" pagename="22"?>ethnicity</a> is based on cultural characteristics. An <i>ethnic group</i> is a category of people who have migrated to another country, but still identify themselves—and are perceived by others—as distinctive because of a common homeland and history, language, religion, or traditional cultural beliefs and social practices. For example, Hispanic Americans may be Black, White, or any shade in between. What unites them is their language and culture. By the mid-1980s, there was sufficient interest among psychologists in ethnicity for the APA to create a new division (Division 45), devoted to the psychological study of ethnic minority issues. Increasing numbers of psychologists are now studying why ethnicity is so important both in our country and in others and how individuals select or create an ethnic identity and respond to ethnic stereotypes.<a class="xref" id="P70004931900000000000000000008FB" data-href="#P70004931900000000000000000008FC" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008FB"/></p>
<aside class="marginalia" id="P70004931900000000000000000008FC" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008FC"><section class="glossary" id="P70004931900000000000000000008FD" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008FD" epub:type="glossary"><dl class="glossentrylist" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D0E" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D0E"><dt class="glossterm" id="P70004931900000000000000000008FF" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000008FF" epub:type="glossterm"><dfn>ethnicity</dfn></dt>
<dd class="glossdef" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D0F" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D0F" epub:type="glossdef"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D10" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D10">A common cultural heritage—including religion, language, or ancestry—that is shared by a group of individuals.</p></dd></dl></section></aside><section id="P7000493190000000000000000000902" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000902" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000903" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000903" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="198.000" y="384.173" w="240.592" h="9.500" page="22" pagename="22"?>Racial and Ethnic Minorities in Psychology</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D11" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D11">Most ethnic minorities are still underrepresented among the ranks of American psychologists (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007317"><?REGION x="490.152" y="396.173" w="62.395" h="9.500" page="22" pagename="22"?>Chandler, 2011</a>). Why? One possibility is that when Black, Hispanic American, Native American, and other students look at the history of psychology or the psychology faculties of modern universities, they find few role models; likewise, when they look at psychological research, they find little about themselves and their realities (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007FEF"><?REGION x="448.990" y="444.173" w="65.397" h="9.500" page="22" pagename="22"?>Strickland, 2000</a>). One survey of psychology journals found that less than 2% of the articles focused on U.S. racial and ethnic minorities (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007808"><?REGION x="291.587" y="468.173" w="97.322" h="9.500" page="22" pagename="22"?>Iwamasa &amp; Smith, 1996</a>). Nonetheless, their small numbers have not prevented them from achieving prominence and making significant contributions to the field. For example, the late Kenneth Clark (1914–2005), a former president of the American Psychological Association, received national recognition for the important work he and his wife, the late Mamie Clark (1917–1983), did on the effects of segregation on Black children. This research was cited by the Supreme Court in the <i>Brown v. Board of Education</i> decision of 1954 that outlawed segregated schools in the United States.<a id="P7000493190000000000000000000905" data-href="#P7000493190000000000000000000906" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000905"/> </p><aside class="sidebar" id="P7000493190000000000000000000906" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000906"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000907" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000907" epub:type="title"><span class="label">Thinking Critically About… </span>
<a id="P7000493190000000000000000000908" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000908"/>Psychology and Minority Students</h1></header>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D12" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D12">In the text, we cited Strickland’s conclusion that members of minority groups are underrepresented among psychology majors and in psychology postgraduate programs because a majority of their instructors and professors are White, and because so many of the research studies they read about in introductory psychology are based on White-only participants (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007FEF"><?REGION x="70.048" y="729.960" w="59.805" h="8.500" page="22" pagename="22"?>Strickland, 2000</a>).</p>
<ul id="P700049319000000000000000000090A" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000090A"><li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D13" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D13"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D14" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D14">Do you agree with Strickland? Why or why not?</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D15" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D15"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D16" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D16">What other reasons might explain why Whites are more likely than people of color to choose psychology as their main area of study and future career?</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D17" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D17"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D18" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D18">How might you go about determining whether those various explanations are valid? What kind of research evidence would lead you to favor one explanation over another?</p></li></ul></aside>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D19" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D19">In an effort to remedy the underrepresentation of ethnic minorities, the APA’s Office of Ethnic Minority Affairs is sponsoring programs to attract ethnic-minority <span class="pagebreak" title="23" id="P7000493190000000000000000000912" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000912" epub:type="pagebreak"/>students to psychology (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007361"><?REGION x="160.642" y="51.180" w="43.474" h="9.500" page="23" pagename="23"?>Clay, 2009</a>; <a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007BE4"><?REGION x="210.113" y="51.180" w="58.047" h="9.500" page="23" pagename="23"?>Munsey, 2009</a>). This initiative includes summer programs for high school students, recruitment at the high school and college levels, mentor and other guidance programs, and a clearinghouse for college students who meet the requirements for graduate programs.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D1A" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D1A">Psychologists are also working to uncover and overcome biases in psychological research that are related to gender, race, and ethnicity. The field of psychology is broadening its scope to probe the full range and richness of human diversity, and this text mirrors that expansive and inclusive approach. We will consider the problem of bias in psychological research more fully later in the chapter.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000000914" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000914" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000000915" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000915" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="172.187" w="50.369" h="15.000" page="23" pagename="23"?>Culture</h1></header>
<div class="instructions" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D1B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D1B"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D1C" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D1C">How does culture contribute to human diversity?</p></div>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D1D" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D1D">“Humans are a cultural species” (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007753"><?REGION x="198.602" y="212.180" w="115.064" h="9.500" page="23" pagename="23"?>Heine &amp; Norenzayan, 2006</a>, p. 251). A <a class="keyword" id="P7000493190000000000000000000919" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000919" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000006A09"><?REGION x="362.694" y="212.180" w="30.599" h="9.500" page="23" pagename="23"?>culture</a> provides modes of thinking, acting, and communicating; ideas about how the world works and why people behave as they do; beliefs and ideals that shape our individual dreams and desires; information about how to use and improve technology; and, perhaps most important, criteria for evaluating what natural events, human actions, and life itself mean. All large, complex modern societies also include subcultures—groups whose values, attitudes, behavior, and vocabulary or accent distinguish them from the cultural mainstream. Most Americans participate in a number of subcultures as well as in mainstream culture.<a class="xref" id="P700049319000000000000000000091A" data-href="#P700049319000000000000000000091B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000091A"/></p>
<aside class="marginalia" id="P700049319000000000000000000091B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000091B"><section class="glossary" id="P700049319000000000000000000091C" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000091C" epub:type="glossary"><dl class="glossentrylist" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D1E" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D1E"><dt class="glossterm" id="P700049319000000000000000000091E" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000091E" epub:type="glossterm"><dfn>culture</dfn></dt>
<dd class="glossdef" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D1F" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D1F" epub:type="glossdef"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D20" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D20">The tangible goods and the values, attitudes, behaviors, and beliefs that are passed from one generation to another.</p></dd></dl></section></aside><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D21" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D21">Many of the traits we think of as defining us as human—especially language, morals, and technology—are elements of culture. Even one’s sense of self is dependent on culture and subculture. In <a class="keyword" id="P7000493190000000000000000000922" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000922" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000069FD"><?REGION x="200.976" y="344.180" w="97.062" h="9.500" page="23" pagename="23"?>cross-cultural research</a>, psychologists examine the way cultures and subcultures affect behavior. For example, cross-cultural research on motivation and emotions, personality, and self-esteem has called attention to a broad distinction between <i>individualistic cultures</i> (which value independence and personal achievement) and <i>collectivist cultures</i> (which value interdependence, fitting in, and harmonious relationships). Moreover, cross-cultural studies have had a significant impact on the study of gender. Anthropologist Margaret Mead’s classic work, <i>Sex and Temperament in Three Primitive Societies</i> (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007B5A"><?REGION x="222.743" y="428.180" w="19.000" h="9.500" page="23" pagename="23"?>1935</a>), is still cited by feminists and others as showing that definitions of masculinity and femininity are not biological givens, but are instead created by cultures and learned by their members along with other cultural norms, which makes them subject to change. Finally, in our increasingly multicultural society, psychologists are now dealing with diverse clients, research participants, and students. To meet this challenge, psychologists and other mental health professionals have begun working to educate and train “culturally competent” professionals (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000075D5"><?REGION x="389.804" y="500.180" w="24.196" h="9.500" page="23" pagename="23"?>Fung, <?REGION x="54.000" y="512.180" w="136.333" h="9.500" page="23" pagename="23"?>Andermann, Zaretsky, &amp; Lo, 2008</a>; <a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000814F"><?REGION x="199.833" y="512.180" w="97.935" h="9.500" page="23" pagename="23"?>Whealin &amp; Ruzek, 2008</a>).<a class="xref" id="P7000493190000000000000000000923" data-href="#P7000493190000000000000000000924" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000923"/></p>
<aside class="marginalia" id="P7000493190000000000000000000924" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000924"><section class="glossary" id="P7000493190000000000000000000925" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000925" epub:type="glossary"><dl class="glossentrylist" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D22" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D22"><dt class="glossterm" id="P7000493190000000000000000000927" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000927" epub:type="glossterm"><dfn>cross-cultural research</dfn></dt>
<dd class="glossdef" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D23" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D23" epub:type="glossdef"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D24" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D24">Research involving the exploration of the extent to which people differ from one culture to another.</p></dd></dl></section></aside><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D25" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D25">Throughout this book, we will explore similarities and differences among individuals and groups of people. For example, we will examine differences in personality characteristics and intelligence; also, we will look at similarities in biological functioning and developmental stages. In most chapters we will examine research on males and females, members of different racial and ethnic groups, and cross-cultural studies.</p></section>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000092B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000092B" epub:type="practice" class="practice level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000092C" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000092C" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="605.500" w="147.297" h="20.000" page="23" pagename="23"?><span class="label">Quiz Questions </span></h1></header>
<ol class="practicelist" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D26" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D26"><li class="general-problem" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D27" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D27"><div class="question" id="P700049319000000000000000000092F" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000092F"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D28" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D28">Which of the following is NOT a compelling reason why psychologists should study human diversity?</p></div>
<div class="answer" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D29" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D29"><ol class="ol_lower-alpha" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D2A" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D2A"><li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D2B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D2B"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D2C" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D2C">Because our society is made up of so many different kinds of people.</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D2D" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D2D"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D2E" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D2E">To help solve interpersonal tensions based on misunderstandings of other people.</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D2F" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D2F"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D30" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D30">To help identify what humans have in common.</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D31" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D31"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D32" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D32">Because diversity psychology is one of the major subdivisions of psychology.</p></li></ol></div></li>
<li class="general-problem" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D33" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D33"><div class="question" id="P700049319000000000000000000093C" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000093C"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D34" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D34">A <span class="wol">           </span> is a group within a larger society that shares a certain set of values, attitudes, behavior, and a distinctive vocabulary and accent.</p></div>
<div class="answer" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D35" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D35"><ol class="ol_lower-alpha" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D36" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D36"><li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D37" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D37"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D38" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D38">culture</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D39" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D39"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D3A" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D3A">race</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D3B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D3B"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D3C" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D3C">subculture</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D3D" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D3D"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D3E" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D3E">individualistic culture<span class="pagebreak" title="24" id="P700049319000000000000000000094B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000094B" epub:type="pagebreak"/></p></li></ol></div></li>
<li class="general-problem" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D3F" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D3F"><div class="question" id="P7000493190000000000000000000949" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000949"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D40" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D40">People who have ancestors from the same region of the world and who share a common language, religion, and set of social traditions are said to be part of the same <span class="wol">           </span> group. </p></div>
<div class="answer" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D41" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D41"><ol class="ol_lower-alpha" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D42" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D42"><li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D43" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D43"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D44" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D44">stereotypical</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D45" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D45"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D46" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D46">ethnic</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D47" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D47"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D48" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D48">racial</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D49" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D49"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D4A" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D4A">subcultural</p></li></ol></div></li>
<li class="general-problem" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D4B" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D4B"><div class="question" id="P7000493190000000000000000000957" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000000957"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D4C" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D4C">Which of the following subcultures has been historically overrepresented in psychological research? </p></div>
<div class="answer" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D4D" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D4D"><ol class="ol_lower-alpha" id="P7000493190000000000000000013D4E" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D4E"><li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D4F" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D4F"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D50" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D50">African Americans.</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D51" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D51"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D52" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D52">Females.</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D53" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D53"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D54" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D54">The homeless.</p></li>
<li id="P7000493190000000000000000013D55" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D55"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000013D56" data-uri="M01_MORR8923_11_SE_C01.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000013D56">White males.</p></li></ol></div></li></ol></section></section></body></html>