<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head>
<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.38.26c"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for pxe_basic version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=basic by PXE Tools 1.38.26c, partial=false-->
<title><?REGION x="48.000" y="637.210" w="131.416" h="18.000" page="380" pagename="380"?>Chapter Review </title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/theme/night.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/theme/sepia.css"/></head><body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000473B" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000473B" class="conclusion level1"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000016641" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016641" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="637.210" w="131.416" h="18.000" page="380" pagename="380"?><a id="P700049319000000000000000000473D" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000473D"/><span class="label">Chapter Review </span></h1></header>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000473E" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000473E" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000473F" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000473F" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="672.350" w="114.515" h="12.000" page="380" pagename="380"?>Studying Personality</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004740" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004740" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004741" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004741" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="691.165" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="380" pagename="380"?>What do psychologists mean when they talk about <?REGION x="48.000" y="703.165" w="50.644" h="9.500" page="380" pagename="380"?>personality?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016642" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016642"><b>Personality</b> refers to an individual’s unique pattern of thoughts, feelings, and behaviors that persists over time and across situations. Key to this definition is the concept of distinctive differences among individuals and the concept of personality’s stability and endurance.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004743" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004743" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004744" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004744" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="430.350" w="135.730" h="12.000" page="380" pagename="380"?>Psychodynamic Theories</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004745" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004745" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004746" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004746" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="449.165" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="380" pagename="380"?>What ideas do all psychodynamic theories have in <?REGION x="315.000" y="461.165" w="37.762" h="9.500" page="380" pagename="380"?>common?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016643" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016643"><i>Psychodynamic theories</i> of personality consider behavior to be the transformation and expression of psychic energy within the individual. Often these psychological dynamics are <b>unconscious</b> processes.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004748" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004748" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004749" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004749" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="515.665" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="380" pagename="380"?>When Freud proposed that the sexual instinct is <?REGION x="315.000" y="527.665" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="380" pagename="380"?>the basis of behavior, how was he defining “sexual <?REGION x="315.000" y="539.665" w="32.698" h="9.500" page="380" pagename="380"?>instinct”?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016644" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016644">According to Freud, personality is made of three structures. The <b>id,</b> the only personality structure present at birth, operates in the unconsciousness according to the <b>pleasure principle.</b> The ego, operating at the conscious level according to the <b>reality principle,</b> controls all conscious thinking and reasoning. The <b>superego</b> acts as the moral guardian or conscience helping the person function in society by comparing the ego’s actions with the <b>ego ideal</b> of perfection. Freud used the term <i>sexual instinct</i> to refer to the desire for virtually any form of pleasure. As infants mature, their <b>libido,</b> or energy generated by the sexual instinct, becomes focused on sensitive parts of the body. A <b>fixation</b> occurs if a child is deprived of or receives too much pleasure from the part of the body that dominates one of the five developmental stages—<b>oral, anal, phallic, latency,</b> and <b>genital.</b> During the phallic stage, strong attachment to the parent of the opposite sex and jealousy of the parent of the same sex is termed the <b>Oedipus complex</b> in boys and the <b>Electra complex</b> in girls. Next, the child enters the latency period, characterized by a lack of interest in sexual behavior. Finally, at puberty, the individual enters the genital stage of mature sexuality.</p></section>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000474C" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000474C" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000474D" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000474D" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="128.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>How did Carl Jung’s view of the unconscious differ <?REGION x="54.000" y="140.180" w="82.554" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>from that of Freud?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016645" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016645">Freud saw the id as a “cauldron of seething excitations,” whereas Jung viewed the unconscious as the ego’s source of strength. Jung believed that the unconscious consisted of the <b>personal unconscious,</b> encompassing an individual’s repressed thoughts, forgotten experiences, and undeveloped ideas; and the <b>collective unconscious,</b> a subterranean river of memories and behavior patterns flowing to us from previous generations. Certain universal thought forms, called <b>archetypes,</b> give rise to mental images or mythological representations and play a special role in shaping personality. Jung used the term <b>persona</b> to describe that part of personality by which we are known to other people, like a mask we put on to go out in public.</p></section>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000474F" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000474F" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004750" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004750" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="313.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>What did Alfred Adler believe was the major determi<?REGION x="54.000" y="325.180" w="84.366" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>nant of personality?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016646" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016646">Adler believed that people possess innate positive motives and strive toward personal and social perfection. He originally proposed that <span class="pagebreak" title="381" id="P700049319000000000000000000474B" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000474B" epub:type="pagebreak"/>the principal determinant of personality was the individual’s attempt to <b>compensate</b> for actual physical weakness, but he later modified his theory to stress the importance of <i>feelings</i> of inferiority, whether or not those feelings are justified. Adler concluded that strivings for superiority and perfection, both in one’s own life and in the society in which one lives, are crucial to personality development.</p></section>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000F316" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000F316" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000F317" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000F317" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="462.830" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>What major contributions did Karen Horney make to <?REGION x="54.000" y="474.830" w="136.277" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>the psychodynamic perspective?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016647" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016647">For Horney, anxiety—a person’s reaction to real or imagined dangers or threats—is a stronger motivating force than the sexual drive, or libido. Overly anxious adults may adopt one of three maladaptive coping strategies—moving toward people (submission), moving against people (aggression), and moving away from people (detachment). By emphasizing that culture and not anatomy determines many of the personality traits that differentiate women from men and that culture can be changed, Horney became a forerunner of feminist psychology.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004752" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004752" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004753" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004753" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="462.830" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>What major contributions did Karen Horney make to <?REGION x="54.000" y="474.830" w="136.277" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>the psychodynamic perspective?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016648" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016648">For Horney, anxiety—a person’s reaction to real or imagined dangers or threats—is a stronger motivating force than the sexual drive, or libido. Overly anxious adults may adopt one of three maladaptive coping strategies—moving toward people (submission), moving against people (aggression), and moving away from people (detachment). By emphasizing that culture and not anatomy determines many of the personality traits that differentiate women from men and that culture can be changed, Horney became a forerunner of feminist psychology.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004755" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004755" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004756" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004756" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="612.480" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>Erikson’s theory focused less on unconscious conflict <?REGION x="54.000" y="624.480" w="110.442" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>and more on what factors?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016649" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016649">Erikson argued that the quality of the parent–child relationship affects the development of personality because, out of this interaction, the child either feels competent and valuable and is able to form a secure sense of identity or feels incompetent and worthless and fails to build a secure identity. Erikson proposed that each person moves through eight stages of development, each involving a more successful versus a less successful adjustment.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004758" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004758" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004759" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004759" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="51.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>How would a psychodynamic theorist view the person<?REGION x="321.000" y="63.180" w="96.677" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>ality of Jaylene Smith?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001664A" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001664A">Freud would probably conclude that Jay had not successfully resolved her Electra complex. Erikson might suggest that Jay has problems achieving intimacy (Stage 6) because she had failed to develop satisfactory relations with other people earlier in her life.</p></section>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000475B" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000475B" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000475C" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000475C" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="128.830" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>How do modern psychologists view the contributions <?REGION x="321.000" y="140.830" w="238.782" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>and limitations of the psychodynamic perspective?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001664B" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001664B">Psychodynamic theories have had a profound impact on the way we view ourselves and others, but some of Freud’s theories have been criticized as unscientific and culture bound, based on the anecdotal accounts of troubled individuals. As a therapy, <b>psychoanalysis</b> has been shown to be beneficial in some cases but no more so than are other therapies.</p></section></section>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000475E" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000475E" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000475F" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000475F" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="248.015" w="178.162" h="12.000" page="381" pagename="381"?>Humanistic Personality Theories</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004760" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004760" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004761" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004761" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="266.830" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>What are the major ways that humanistic personality <?REGION x="321.000" y="278.830" w="190.537" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>theory differs from psychodynamic theories?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001664C" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001664C">Freud and many of his followers believed that personality grows out of the resolution of unconscious conflicts and developmental crises from the past. <b>Humanistic personality theory</b> emphasizes that we are positively motivated and progress toward higher levels of functioning; and it stresses people’s potential for growth and change in the present.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004763" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004763" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004764" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004764" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="380.830" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>According to Rogers, how can thinking of yourself as <?REGION x="321.000" y="392.830" w="157.039" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>self-assured help you to become so?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001664D" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001664D">Rogers contended that every person is born with certain innate potentials and the <b>actualizing tendency</b> to realize our biological potential as well as our conscious sense of who we are. A <b>fully functioning person</b> is one whose self-concept closely matches the person’s inborn capabilities, and is encouraged when a child is raised in an atmosphere characterized by <b>unconditional positive regard.</b> </p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004766" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004766" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004767" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004767" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="494.830" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>How would humanistic theorists view the development <?REGION x="321.000" y="506.830" w="142.755" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>of Jaylene Smith’s personality?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001664E" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001664E">Humanistic theorists would focus on the difference between Jay’s self-concept and her actual capacities. Her inability to become what she “most truly is” would account for her anxiety, loneliness, and general dissatisfaction. Rogers would suspect that throughout Jay’s life, acceptance and love came from satisfying other people’s ideas of what she should become.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004769" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004769" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000476A" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000476A" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="596.830" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>What have humanistic theories contributed to our under<?REGION x="321.000" y="608.830" w="102.742" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>standing of personality?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001664F" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001664F">There is a lack of scientifically derived evidence for humanistic theories of personality. In addition, these theories are criticized for taking too rosy a view of human nature, for fostering self-centeredness, and for reflecting Western values of individual achievement.</p></section></section>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000476C" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000476C" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000476D" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000476D" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="683.015" w="75.551" h="12.000" page="381" pagename="381"?>Trait Theories</h1></header>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000476E" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000476E" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000476F" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000476F" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="701.830" w="178.691" h="9.500" page="381" pagename="381"?>What is the key focus of trait theories?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016650" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016650">Trait theorists reject the notion that there are just a few distinct personality types. Instead, they insist that each person possesses a unique constellation of fundamental <b>personality traits,</b> which can be inferred from how the person behaves.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004772" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004772" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004773" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004773" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="81.380" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>What five basic traits describe most differences in per<?REGION x="48.000" y="93.380" w="34.067" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>sonality?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016651" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016651">Recent research suggests that there may be just five overarching and universal personality traits: extraversion, agreeableness, conscientiousness, emotional stability, and openness to experience (also called culture or intellect). Research shows these traits have some real-world applications and are strongly influenced by heredity.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004775" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004775" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004776" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004776" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="171.580" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>How would trait theorists describe Jaylene Smith’s per<?REGION x="48.000" y="183.580" w="34.827" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>sonality?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016652" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016652">Trait theorists would probably ascribe Jaylene’s high achievements to the traits of determination or persistence. Sincerity, motivation, intelligence, anxiety, and introversion would also describe Jay. In terms of Big Five factors, she would be considered high in conscientiousness, but low in emotional stability and extraversion.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004778" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004778" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004779" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004779" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="261.780" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>What major contributions have trait theorists made to <?REGION x="48.000" y="273.780" w="155.623" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>our understanding of personality?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016653" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016653">Trait theories are primarily descriptive and provide a way of classifying personalities, but they do not explain why someone’s personality developed as it did. Unlike psychodynamic and humanistic theories, however, trait theories are relatively easy to test experimentally, and research confirms the value of the five-factor model, referred to as the <b>“Big Five,”</b> in pinpointing personality. Also, although most personality theories assume that behavior is consistent across situations and over a lifetime, a number of psychologists believe that situational variables have a significant effect on behavior.<span class="pagebreak" title="382" id="P7000493190000000000000000004771" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004771" epub:type="pagebreak"/></p></section></section>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000477B" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000477B" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000477C" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000477C" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="431.965" w="194.674" h="12.000" page="382" pagename="382"?>Cognitive–Social Learning Theories</h1></header>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000477D" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000477D" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000477E" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000477E" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="450.780" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>How do personal and situational factors combine to <?REGION x="48.000" y="462.780" w="67.516" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>shape behavior?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016654" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016654"><b>Cognitive–social learning theories</b> of personality view behavior as the product of the interaction of cognitions, learning and past experiences, and the immediate environment.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004780" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004780" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004781" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004781" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="516.780" w="212.297" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>How does one’s locus of control affect self-efficacy?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016655" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016655">Albert Bandura maintains that certain internal <b>expectancies</b> determine how a person evaluates a situation and that this evaluation has an effect on the person’s behavior. These expectancies prompt people to conduct themselves according to unique <b>performance standards,</b> individually determined measures of excellence by which they judge their behavior. According to Rotter, people with an internal <b>locus of control</b>—one type of expectancy—believe that they can control their own fate through their actions. Those who succeed in meeting their own internal performance standards develop an attitude that Bandura calls <b>self-efficacy.</b> </p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004783" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004783" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004784" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004784" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="141.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>How would cognitive–social learning theorists describe <?REGION x="315.000" y="153.180" w="238.782" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>the factors that shaped Jaylene Smith’s personality?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016656" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016656">These theorists would assert that Jaylene acquired extraordinarily high performance standards that almost inevitably left her with feelings of low self-efficacy, insecurity, and uncertainty. She probably learned to be shy because she was rewarded for the many hours she spent alone studying. Reinforcement would also have shaped her self-discipline and high need to achieve. By watching her parents, Jay could have learned to respond to conflicts with aggressive outbursts.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004786" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004786" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004787" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004787" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="279.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>What contributions have cognitive–social learning theo<?REGION x="315.000" y="291.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>ries made to our understanding of personality, and what <?REGION x="315.000" y="303.180" w="84.366" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>are their limitations?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016657" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016657">Cognitive–social learning theories avoid the narrowness of trait theories, as well as the reliance on case studies and anecdotal evidence that weakens psychodynamic and humanistic theories. They also explain why people behave inconsistently, an area where the trait theories fall short. Cognitive–social learning theories have also spawned therapies that have been effectively used to treat depression.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004789" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004789" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000478A" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000478A" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="413.365" w="128.374" h="12.000" page="382" pagename="382"?>Personality Assessment</h1></header>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000478B" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000478B" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000478C" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000478C" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="432.180" w="182.971" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>How do psychologists measure personality?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016658" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016658">Psychologists use four different methods to assess personality: the personal interview, direct observation of behavior, objective tests, and <b>projective tests.</b> Factors such as a desire to impress the examiner, fatigue, and fear of being tested can profoundly affect the reliability and validity of such tests.</p></section>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000478E" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000478E" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000478F" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000478F" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="509.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>What are the purposes of structured and unstructured <?REGION x="315.000" y="521.180" w="44.953" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>interviews?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016659" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016659">During an unstructured interview, the interviewer asks questions about any issues that arise and poses follow-up questions where appropriate. In a structured interview, the order and the content of the questions are fixed, and the interviewer does not deviate from the format. Structured interviews are more likely to be used for systematic research on personality because they elicit comparable information from all interviewees.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004791" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004791" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004792" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004792" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="636.966" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>What are the advantages and limits of the observational <?REGION x="48.000" y="648.966" w="33.250" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>method?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001665A" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001665A">Direct observation of a person over a period of time, which enables researchers to assess how situation and environment influence behavior, has the advantage of not relying on people’s self-reported behavior. However, the observer runs the risk of misinterpreting the meaning of a given behavior.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004794" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004794" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004795" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004795" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="725.966" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="382" pagename="382"?>Why are objective tests preferred by trait theorists?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001665B" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001665B">Objective tests ask respondents to answer “yes–no” questions about their own behavior and thoughts. Cattell’s <b>Sixteen Personality Factor Questionnaire (16PF)</b> provides scores on 16 basic personality traits, whereas the NEO-PI-R reports scores for each of the Big Five traits and their associated facets. The <b>Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI-2),</b> originally developed as an aid to diagnose mental disorders, includes questions that measure the truthfulness of a person’s response.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004797" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004797" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004798" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004798" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="51.180" w="170.915" h="9.500" page="383" pagename="383"?>What do projective tests try to measure?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001665C" data-uri="M10_MORR8923_11_SE_C10.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001665C">Psychodynamic theorists, who believe that much behavior is determined by unconscious processes, tend to discount tests that rely on self-reports. They are more likely to use projective tests consisting of ambiguous stimuli that can elicit an unlimited number of interpretations based on these unconscious processes. Two such tests are the <b>Rorschach Test</b> and the <b>Thematic Apperception Test (TAT).</b> </p></section></section></section></body></html>