<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head>
<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.38.26c"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for pxe_basic version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=basic by PXE Tools 1.38.26c, partial=false-->
<title><?REGION x="198.000" y="346.480" w="298.575" h="20.000" page="444" pagename="444"?>Gender and Cultural Differences <?REGION x="198.000" y="370.480" w="226.895" h="20.000" page="444" pagename="444"?>in Psychological Disorders</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/theme/night.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/theme/sepia.css"/></head><body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000052A9" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000052A9" class="level1"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000052AA" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000052AA" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="198.000" y="346.480" w="298.575" h="20.000" page="444" pagename="444"?>Gender and Cultural Differences <?REGION x="198.000" y="370.480" w="226.895" h="20.000" page="444" pagename="444"?>in Psychological Disorders</h1></header>
<section id="P70004931900000000000000000052AB" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000052AB" class="objectiveset level2"><ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist" id="P7000493190000000000000000016DB4" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016DB4"><li class="objective" id="P70004931900000000000000000052AD" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000052AD"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016DB5" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016DB5"><span class="label">LO </span><span class="number">12.18 	</span>Describe the differences between men and women with psychological disorders including the prevalence of disorders and the kinds of disorders they are likely to experience. Explain why these differences exist. Explain why “it is increasingly important for mental health professionals to be aware of cultural differences” in psychological disorders.</p></li></ol></section>
<div class="instructions" id="P7000493190000000000000000016DB6" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016DB6"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016DB7" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016DB7">What are the differences between men and women in psychological disorders?</p></div>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000016DB8" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016DB8">For the most part, men and women are similar with respect to mental disorders, but differences do exist. Many studies have concluded that women have a higher rate of psychological disorders than men do, but this is an oversimplification (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000073B0"><?REGION x="518.082" y="524.103" w="39.918" h="9.500" page="444" pagename="444"?>Cosgrove <?REGION x="198.000" y="536.103" w="58.238" h="9.500" page="444" pagename="444"?>&amp; Riddle, 2004</a>). We do know that more women than men are <i>treated</i> for mental disorders. But this cannot be taken to mean that more women than men have mental disorders, for in our society, it is much more acceptable for women to discuss their emotional difficulties and to seek professional help openly (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000079E9"><?REGION x="448.444" y="572.103" w="69.178" h="9.500" page="444" pagename="444"?>H. Lerman, 1996</a>).</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000016DB9" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016DB9">Moreover, mental disorders for which there seems to be a strong biological component, such as bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, are distributed fairly equally between the sexes. Differences tend to be found for those disorders <i>without</i> a strong biological component—that is, disorders in which learning and experience play a more important role. For example, men are more likely than women to suffer from substance abuse and antisocial personality disorder. Women, on the other hand, are more likely to suffer from depression, agoraphobia, simple phobia, obsessive–compulsive disorder, and somatization disorder (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000073D0"><?REGION x="296.210" y="668.103" w="53.091" h="9.500" page="444" pagename="444"?>Craske, 2003</a>; <a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007548"><?REGION x="354.768" y="668.103" w="200.857" h="9.500" page="444" pagename="444"?>Faravelli, Scarpato, Castellini, &amp; Lo Sauro, 2013</a>; <a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007E04"><?REGION x="198.000" y="680.103" w="109.304" h="9.500" page="444" pagename="444"?>Rosenfield &amp; Pottick, 2005</a>). These tendencies, coupled with the fact that gender differences observed in the United States are not always seen in other cultures (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000073EC"><?REGION x="509.475" y="692.103" w="48.525" h="9.500" page="444" pagename="444"?>Culbertson, <?REGION x="198.000" y="704.103" w="14.108" h="9.500" page="444" pagename="444"?>1997</a>), suggest that socialization plays a part in developing a disorder: When men display abnormal behavior, it is more likely to take the forms of drinking too much and acting aggressively; when women display abnormal behavior, they are more likely to become fearful, passive, hopeless, and “sick” (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007E04"><?REGION x="389.745" y="740.103" w="108.726" h="9.500" page="444" pagename="444"?>Rosenfield &amp; Pottick, 2005</a>).</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000016DBA" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016DBA"><span class="pagebreak" title="445" id="P70004931900000000000000000052B4" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000052B4" epub:type="pagebreak"/>One commonly reported difference between the sexes concerns marital status. Men who are separated, divorced, or who have never married have a higher incidence of mental disorders than do either women of the same marital status or married men. But married women have higher rates than married men. What accounts for the apparent fact that marriage is psychologically less beneficial for women than for men?</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000016DBB" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016DBB">Here, too, socialization appears to play a role. For women, marriage, family relationships, and child rearing are likely to be more stressful than they are for men (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007522"><?REGION x="57.163" y="272.103" w="60.851" h="9.500" page="445" pagename="445"?>Erickson, 2005</a>; <a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007FD9"><?REGION x="123.300" y="272.103" w="110.819" h="9.500" page="445" pagename="445"?>Stolzenberg &amp; Waite, 2005</a>). For men, marriage and family provide a haven; for women, they are a demanding job. In addition, women are more likely than men to be the victims of incest, rape, and marital battering. As one researcher has commented, “for women, the U.S. family is a violent institution” (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000794F"><?REGION x="317.563" y="308.103" w="44.389" h="9.500" page="445" pagename="445"?>Koss, 1990</a>, p. 376). We saw in <a class="xref" href="pg0108.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004865"><?REGION x="83.786" y="320.103" w="47.893" h="9.500" page="445" pagename="445"?><span class="label">Chapter </span><span class="number">11 </span></a> that the effects of stress are proportional to the extent that a person feels alienated, powerless, and helpless. Alienation, powerlessness, and helplessness are more prevalent in women than in men. The rate of depression among women is twice that of men, a difference that is usually ascribed to the more negative and stressful aspects of women’s lives, including lower incomes and the experiences of bias and physical and sexual abuse (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000070AF"><?REGION x="191.735" y="380.103" w="178.817" h="9.500" page="445" pagename="445"?>American Psychological Association, 2006</a>; <a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000071E3"><?REGION x="376.193" y="380.103" w="37.807" h="9.500" page="445" pagename="445"?>Blehar &amp; <?REGION x="54.000" y="392.103" w="41.119" h="9.500" page="445" pagename="445"?>Keita, 2003</a>). These factors are especially common among minority women, so it is not surprising that the prevalence of psychological disorders is greater among them than among other women (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007999"><?REGION x="147.118" y="416.103" w="85.709" h="9.500" page="445" pagename="445"?>Laganà &amp; Sosa, 2004</a>).</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000016DBC" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016DBC">In summary, women do seem to have higher rates of anxiety disorders and depression than men do; and they are more likely than men to seek professional help for their problems. However, greater stress, due in part to socialization and lower status rather than psychological weakness, apparently accounts for this statistic. Marriage and family life, associated with lower rates of mental disorders among men, introduce additional stress into the lives of women, particularly young women (25 to 45); and in some instances this added stress escalates into a psychological disorder.<a id="P70004931900000000000000000052B7" data-href="#P70004931900000000000000000052B8" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000052B7"/> </p><aside class="sidebar" id="P70004931900000000000000000052B8" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000052B8"><header><h1 class="title" id="P70004931900000000000000000052B9" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000052B9" epub:type="title"><span class="label">Enduring Issues </span>
<a id="P70004931900000000000000000052BA" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000052BA"/>Diversity–Universality</h1><p class="subtitle" id="P7000493190000000000000000016DBD" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016DBD" epub:type="subtitle"> Are We All Alike?</p></header>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000016DBE" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016DBE">The frequency and nature of some psychological disorders vary significantly among the world’s different cultures (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000076EB"><?REGION x="272.618" y="125.160" w="34.382" h="8.500" page="445" pagename="445"?>Halbreich <?REGION x="74.000" y="137.160" w="56.491" h="8.500" page="445" pagename="445"?>&amp; Karkun, 2006</a>; <a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007A62"><?REGION x="141.970" y="137.160" w="103.678" h="8.500" page="445" pagename="445"?>López &amp; Guarnaccia, 2000</a>). This suggests that many disorders have a strong cultural component, or that diagnosis is somehow related to culture. On the other hand, disorders that are known to have a strong genetic component generally display a more uniform distribution across different cultures.</p></aside>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000016DBF" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016DBF">As the U.S. population becomes more diverse, it is increasingly important for mental health professionals to be aware of cultural differences if they are to understand and diagnose disorders among people of various cultural groups. Many disorders occur only in particular cultural groups. For example<i>, ataque de nervios</i>—literally translated as “attack of nerves”—is a culturally specific phenomenon that is seen predominately among Latinos. The symptoms of <i>ataque de nervios</i> generally include the feeling of being out of control, which may be accompanied by fainting spells, trembling, uncontrollable screaming, and crying, and, in some cases, verbal or physical aggressiveness. Afterwards, many patients do not recall the attack, and quickly return to normal functioning. Another example, <i>taijin kyofusho</i> (roughly translated as “fear of people”), involves a morbid fear that one’s body or actions may be offensive to others. <i>Taijin kyofusho</i> is rarely seen outside of Japan.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000016DC0" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016DC0">The prevalence of childhood disorders also differs markedly by culture. Of course, it is adults—parents, teachers, counselors—who decide whether a child is suffering from a psychological disorder, and those decisions are likely to be influenced by cultural expectations. For example, in a series of cross-cultural studies, Thai children were more likely to be referred to mental health clinics for internalizing problems, such as anxiety and depression, compared to U.S. children, who were more likely to be referred for externalizing problems, such as aggressive behavior (Weisz et al., 1997).</p>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000FA95" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000FA95" epub:type="practice" class="practice level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000FA96" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000FA96" epub:type="title"><span class="pagebreak" title="446" id="P70004931900000000000000000052C0" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000052C0" epub:type="pagebreak"/><span class="label">Writing Assignment</span></h1></header>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000016DC1" data-uri="M12_MORR8923_11_SE_C12.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016DC1">Why do most researchers consider schizophrenia a brain disorder? What evidence suggests that schizophrenia could begin in the womb?</p></section></section></body></html>