<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head>
<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.38.26c"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for pxe_basic version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=basic by PXE Tools 1.38.26c, partial=false-->
<title><?REGION x="198.000" y="51.180" w="220.097" h="20.000" page="538" pagename="538"?>Organizational Attitudes</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/theme/night.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/theme/sepia.css"/></head><body epub:type="backmatter">
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000006289" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000006289" class="level1"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000628A" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000628A" epub:type="title"><span class="pagebreak" title="538" id="P700049319000000000000000000628B" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000628B" epub:type="pagebreak"/><?REGION x="198.000" y="51.180" w="220.097" h="20.000" page="538" pagename="538"?>Organizational Attitudes</h1></header>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000017825" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017825">Effective leadership contributes to organizational productivity in many ways. For example, a leader can have a significant effect on the attitudes that workers develop about their jobs and the organizations for which they work. Among the attitudes that organizational psychologists are most interested in are the degree to which workers derive satisfaction from their jobs and the extent to which they develop a sense of trust in the organization and an appreciation that its processes and procedures are fair.</p>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000628D" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000628D" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P700049319000000000000000000628E" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000628E" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="198.000" y="160.810" w="100.423" h="15.000" page="538" pagename="538"?>Job Satisfaction</h1></header>
<section id="P700049319000000000000000000628F" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000628F" class="objectiveset level3"><ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist" id="P7000493190000000000000000017826" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017826"><li class="objective" id="P7000493190000000000000000006291" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000006291"><p id="P7000493190000000000000000017827" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017827"><span class="label">LO </span><span class="number"><span>B.</span>10 	</span>Discuss the relationship between job satisfaction and job performance.</p></li></ol></section>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000017828" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017828">Organizational psychologists are interested in job satisfaction because it is linked to many important organizational variables. Perhaps the most closely studied relationship is that between job satisfaction and job performance. Intuitively it seems that workers who are satisfied with their jobs will perform at higher levels than those who are unhappy in their work. However, hundreds of research studies have shown that job satisfaction is, at best, only moderately linked to job performance (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000787D"><?REGION x="531.096" y="261.803" w="26.904" h="9.500" page="538" pagename="538"?>Judge, <?REGION x="198.000" y="273.803" w="129.304" h="9.500" page="538" pagename="538"?>Thoresen, Bono, &amp; Patton, 2001</a>). Nevertheless, most employees want satisfying jobs and so most employers seek to create a workplace that contributes to job satisfaction.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000017829" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017829">The amount of pleasure employees derive from their jobs is determined in large part by the extent to which they feel that their expectations about their jobs are met (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000077DA"><?REGION x="524.103" y="309.803" w="33.897" h="9.500" page="538" pagename="538"?>Hulin &amp; <?REGION x="198.000" y="321.803" w="42.389" h="9.500" page="538" pagename="538"?>Judge, 2003</a>). When expectations are met or exceeded, levels of job satisfaction are generally high. However, there is a limit to what employers can do to increase job satisfaction since it is also affected by employee age, length of employment, overall health, personal motivation, marital status, and leisure activities (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007ED1"><?REGION x="397.800" y="357.803" w="95.854" h="9.500" page="538" pagename="538"?>Schultz &amp; Schultz, 1998</a>).</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000006295" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000006295" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000006296" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000006296" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="198.000" y="383.810" w="145.092" h="15.000" page="538" pagename="538"?>Organizational Justice</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000006297" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000006297" class="objectiveset level3"><ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist" id="P700049319000000000000000001782A" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001782A"><li class="objective" id="P7000493190000000000000000006299" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000006299"><p id="P700049319000000000000000001782B" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001782B"><span class="label">LO </span><span class="number"><span>B.</span>11 	</span>Characterize organizational justice.</p></li></ol></section>
<p id="P700049319000000000000000001782C" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001782C">In recent years, I/O psychologists have become interested in the extent to which employees perceive fairness and justice in the workplace—issues of <a class="keyword" id="P700049319000000000000000000629C" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000629C" epub:type="keyword" href="pg0166.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000006D60"><?REGION x="495.196" y="436.803" w="62.804" h="9.500" page="538" pagename="538"?>organizational <?REGION x="198.000" y="448.803" w="23.730" h="9.500" page="538" pagename="538"?>justice</a>. One aspect of organizational justice is employees’ perceptions that what they receive in recognition is appropriate for what they contribute to the organization. Most employees expect that when they work hard and contribute positively to the productivity of the organization, they will be rewarded.</p><aside class="marginalia" id="P700049319000000000000000000629D" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000629D"><section class="glossary" id="P700049319000000000000000000629E" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000629E" epub:type="glossary"><dl class="glossentrylist" id="P700049319000000000000000001782D" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001782D"><dt class="glossterm" id="P70004931900000000000000000062A0" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P70004931900000000000000000062A0" epub:type="glossterm"><dfn>organizational justice</dfn></dt><dd class="glossdef" id="P700049319000000000000000001782E" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001782E" epub:type="glossdef"> 
<p id="P700049319000000000000000001782F" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001782F">Degree to which employees perceive fairness in the workplace.</p></dd></dl></section></aside>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000017830" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017830">Another aspect of organizational justice involves the extent to which the policies and procedures used within the organization are responsive to the feelings of employees. For example, if an organization needs to eliminate a position within a unit, advance notification about the reasons why the position must be terminated, the criteria for deciding which position will be affected, the timeline for making the change, and an appeal process for workers to voice their concerns all contribute to perceived fairness in the workplace.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000017831" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017831">Finally, organizational justice is high when organizations show concern for workers as individuals. Examples might include a manager sending a get-well card to a subordinate following a surgery or attending the wedding of a worker in the unit he supervises.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000017832" data-uri="Z02_MORR8923_11_SE_APPB.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017832">Research clearly demonstrates that all three forms of organizational justice contribute to employees’ perceptions of fairness in the workplace (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000000738A"><?REGION x="482.561" y="628.803" w="75.439" h="9.500" page="538" pagename="538"?>Colquitt, Conlon, <?REGION x="198.000" y="640.803" w="115.597" h="9.500" page="538" pagename="538"?>Wesson, Porter, &amp; Ng, 2001</a>). When workers perceive that rewards are distributed fairly, that rules and procedures are just and are enforced without favoritism, and that they are valued and respected by the organization and its leaders, organizational justice is enhanced. When workers are treated fairly, job satisfaction, commitment, and productivity increase, and negative workplace behaviors, such as absenteeism and sabotage, decline (<a class="biblioref" href="pg0167.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000007F3E"><?REGION x="298.155" y="700.803" w="110.938" h="9.500" page="538" pagename="538"?>Simons &amp; Roberson, 2003</a>). Research on the topic of organizational justice is likely to continue as I/O psychologists work to better understand how to enhance workplace productivity while maintaining a positive environment.</p></section></section></body></html>