<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head>
<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.38.26c"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for pxe_basic version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=basic by PXE Tools 1.38.26c, partial=false-->
<title><?REGION x="54.000" y="57.776" w="131.416" h="18.000" page="513" pagename="513"?>Chapter Review </title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/theme/night.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/theme/sepia.css"/></head><body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E16" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E16" class="conclusion level1"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E17" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E17" epub:type="title"><span class="pagebreak" title="513" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E18" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E18" epub:type="pagebreak"/><?REGION x="54.000" y="57.776" w="131.416" h="18.000" page="513" pagename="513"?><span class="label">Chapter Review </span></h1></header>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000017570" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017570"><b>Social psychology</b> is the scientific study of the ways in which the thoughts, feelings, and behaviors of one individual are influenced by the real, imagined, or inferred behavior of other people. <b>Social neuroscience</b> involves the application of brain imaging and other neuroscience methods to social psychology.</p>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E1A" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E1A" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E1B" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E1B" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="169.904" w="90.755" h="12.000" page="513" pagename="513"?>Social Cognition</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E1C" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E1C" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E1D" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E1D" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="188.719" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>What do forming impressions, explaining others’ behav<?REGION x="54.000" y="200.719" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>ior, and experiencing interpersonal attraction have in com<?REGION x="54.000" y="212.719" w="13.442" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>mon?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000017571" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017571"> Forming impressions, explaining others’ behavior, and experiencing interpersonal attraction are all examples of <b>social cognition,</b> the process of taking in and assessing information about other people. It is one way in which we are influenced by others’ thoughts, feelings, and behaviors.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E1F" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E1F" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E20" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E20" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="278.719" w="213.142" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>How do we form first impressions of people?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000017572" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017572"> When forming impressions of others, we rely on <i>schemata,</i> or sets of expectations and beliefs about categories of people. Impressions are also affected by the order in which information is acquired. First impressions are the strongest (the <b>primacy effect</b>), probably because we prefer not to subsequently expend more cognitive effort to analyze or change them. This same preference also encourages us to form impressions by using simplistic, but strongly held schemata called <b>stereotypes.</b> First impressions can also bring about the behavior we expect from other people, a process known as <b>self-fulfilling prophecy.</b> </p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E22" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E22" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E23" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E23" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="428.719" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>How do we decide why people act as they do?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000017573" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017573">  <b>Attribution theory</b> holds that people seek to understand human behavior by attributing it either to internal or external causes. Perceptual biases can lead to the <b>fundamental attribution error,</b> in which we overemphasize others’ personal traits in attributing causes to their behavior. <b>Defensive attribution</b> motivates us to explain our own actions in ways that protect our self-esteem. Self-serving bias refers to our tendency to attribute our successes to internal factors and our failures to external ones. The <b>just-world hypothesis</b> may lead us to blame the victim when bad things happen to other people.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E25" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E25" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E26" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E26" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="578.719" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>Do “birds of a feather flock together” or do “oppo<?REGION x="54.000" y="590.719" w="54.504" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>sites attract”?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000017574" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017574"> People who are similar in attitudes, interests, backgrounds, and values tend to like one another. <b>Proximity</b> also promotes liking. The more we are in contact with certain people, the more we tend to like them. Most people also tend to like physically attractive people, as well as attributing to them, correctly or not, many positive personal characteristics.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E28" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E28" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E29" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E29" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="684.904" w="50.831" h="12.000" page="513" pagename="513"?>Attitudes</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E2A" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E2A" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E2B" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E2B" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="703.719" w="128.381" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>Why are attitudes important?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000017575" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017575"> An <b>attitude</b> is a relatively stable organization of beliefs, feelings, and tendencies toward an <i>attitude object.</i> Attitudes are important because they often influence behavior.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E2D" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E2D" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E2E" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E2E" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="87.719" w="222.347" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>What are the three major components of attitudes?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000017576" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017576"> The three major components of attitudes are (1) evaluative beliefs about the attitude object, (2) feelings about that object, and (3) behavioral tendencies toward it. These three components are very often (but not always) consistent with one another.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E30" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E30" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E31" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E31" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="165.719" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>How does a person develop a prejudice toward someone <?REGION x="321.000" y="177.719" w="16.881" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>else?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000017577" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017577">  <b>Prejudice</b> is an unfair negative attitude directed toward a group and its members, whereas <b>discrimination</b> is unfair behavior based on prejudice. One explanation of prejudice is the <b>frustration–aggression theory,</b> which states that people who feel exploited and oppressed displace their hostility toward the powerful onto <i>scapegoats</i>—people who are “lower” on the social scale than they are. Another theory links prejudice to the <b>authoritarian personality,</b> a rigidly conventional and bigoted type marked by exaggerated respect for authority and hostility toward those who defy society’s norms. A third theory proposes a cognitive source of prejudice—oversimplified or stereotyped thinking about categories of people. Finally, conformity to the prejudices of one’s social group can help to explain prejudice. Three strategies for reducing prejudice appear to be especially promising: recategorization (expanding our schema of a particular group), controlled processing (training ourselves to be mindful of people who differ from us), and improving contact between groups.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E33" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E33" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E34" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E34" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="423.719" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>What factors encourage someone to change an atti<?REGION x="321.000" y="435.719" w="19.142" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>tude?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000017578" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017578"> Attitudes may be changed when new actions, beliefs, or perceptions contradict preexisting attitudes, called <b>cognitive dissonance.</b> Attitudes can also change in response to efforts at persuasion. The first step in persuasion is to get the audience’s attention. Then the task is to get the audience to comprehend and accept the message. According to the <i>communication model,</i> persuasion is a function of the source, the message itself, the medium of communication, and the characteristics of the audience. The most effective means of changing attitudes—especially important attitudes, behaviors, or lifestyle choices—may be <i>self-persuasion.</i> </p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E36" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E36" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E37" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E37" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="593.904" w="88.079" h="12.000" page="513" pagename="513"?>Social Influence</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E38" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E38" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E39" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E39" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="612.719" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>What are some areas in which the power of social influ<?REGION x="321.000" y="624.719" w="101.914" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>ence is highly apparent?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000017579" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017579">  <b>Social influence</b> is the process by which people’s perceptions, attitudes, and actions are affected by others’ behavior and characteristics. The power of social influence is especially apparent in the study of cultural influences and of conformity, compliance, and obedience.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E3B" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E3B" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E3C" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E3C" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="702.719" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>How does your culture influence how you dress or <?REGION x="321.000" y="714.719" w="58.722" h="9.500" page="513" pagename="513"?>what you eat?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001757A" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001757A"> The culture in which you are immersed has an enormous influence on your thoughts and actions. Culture dictates differences in diet, dress, and personal <span class="pagebreak" title="514" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E3E" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E3E" epub:type="pagebreak"/>space. One result of this is the unquestioning acceptance of <b>cultural truisms</b>—beliefs or values that most members of a society accept as self-evident. Eating pizza, shunning rattlesnake meat, dressing in jeans instead of a loincloth, and feeling uncomfortable when others stand very close to you when they speak are all results of culture. As we adapt our behavior to that of others, we learn the <b>norms</b> of our culture, as well as its beliefs and values.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E3F" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E3F" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E40" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E40" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="153.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="514" pagename="514"?>What increases the likelihood that someone will con<?REGION x="48.000" y="165.180" w="21.118" h="9.500" page="514" pagename="514"?>form?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001757B" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001757B"> Voluntarily yielding one’s preferences, beliefs, or judgments to those of a larger group is called <b>conformity.</b> Research by Solomon Asch and others has shown that characteristics of both the situation and the person influence the likelihood of conforming. Cultural influences on the tendency to conform also exist, with people in collectivist cultures often being more prone to conformity than those in noncollectivist ones.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E42" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E42" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E43" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E43" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="267.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="514" pagename="514"?>How could a salesperson increase a customer’s compli<?REGION x="48.000" y="279.180" w="113.240" h="9.500" page="514" pagename="514"?>ance in buying a product?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001757C" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001757C">  <b>Compliance</b> is a change in behavior in response to someone’s explicit request. One technique to encourage compliance is the <i>foot-in-the-door approach,</i> or getting people to go along with a small request to make them more likely to comply with a larger one. Another technique is the <i>lowball procedure:</i> initially offering a low price to win commitment, and then gradually escalating the cost. Also effective is the <i>door-in-the-face tactic,</i> or initially making an unreasonable request that is bound to be turned down but will perhaps generate enough guilt to foster compliance with another request.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E45" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E45" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E46" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E46" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="417.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="514" pagename="514"?>How does the “power of the situation” affect obedi<?REGION x="48.000" y="429.180" w="19.522" h="9.500" page="514" pagename="514"?>ence?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001757D" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001757D"> Classic research by Stanley Milgram showed that many people were willing to obey orders to administer harmful shocks to other people. This <b>obedience</b> to an authority figure was more likely when certain situational factors were present. For example, people found it harder to disobey when the authority figure issuing the order was nearby. They were also more likely to obey the command when the person being given the shock was some distance from them. According to Milgram, obedience is brought on by the constraints of the situation.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E48" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E48" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E49" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E49" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="561.365" w="72.263" h="12.000" page="514" pagename="514"?>Social Action</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E4A" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E4A" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E4B" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E4B" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="580.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="514" pagename="514"?>Do we behave differently when other people are pres<?REGION x="48.000" y="592.180" w="13.718" h="9.500" page="514" pagename="514"?>ent?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001757E" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001757E"> Conformity, compliance, and obedience may take place even when no one else is physically present, but other processes of social influence depend on the presence of others.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E4D" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E4D" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E4E" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E4E" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="646.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="514" pagename="514"?>What negative outcomes can result from deindividu<?REGION x="48.000" y="658.180" w="22.876" h="9.500" page="514" pagename="514"?>ation?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001757F" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001757F"> Immersion in a large, anonymous group may lead to <b>deindividuation,</b> the loss of a sense of personal responsibility for one’s actions. Deindividuation can sometimes lead to violence or other forms of irresponsible behavior. The greater the sense of anonymity, the more this effect occurs.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E50" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E50" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E51" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E51" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="117.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="514" pagename="514"?>What factors make us more inclined to help a person in <?REGION x="315.000" y="129.180" w="21.109" h="9.500" page="514" pagename="514"?>need?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000017580" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017580"> Helping someone in need without expectation of a reward is called <b>altruistic behavior.</b> Altruism is influenced by situational factors such as the presence of other people. According to the <b>bystander effect,</b> a person is less apt to offer assistance when other potential helpers are present. Conversely, being the only person to spot someone in trouble tends to encourage helping. Also encouraging helping are an unambiguous emergency situation and certain personal characteristics, such as empathy for the victim and being in a good mood.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E53" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E53" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E54" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E54" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="255.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="514" pagename="514"?>How is making a decision in a group different from <?REGION x="315.000" y="267.180" w="140.586" h="9.500" page="514" pagename="514"?>making a decision on your own?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000017581" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017581"> Research on the <b>risky shift</b> and the broader phenomenon of group <b>polarization</b> shows that group decision making actually increases tendencies toward extreme solutions, encouraging members to lean toward either greater risk or greater caution. People deliberating in groups may also display <i>social loafing,</i> or a tendency to exert less effort on the assumption that others will do most of the work. And in very cohesive groups and isolated groups, there is a tendency toward <b>groupthink,</b> an unwillingness to criticize the emerging group consensus even when it seems misguided.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000005E56" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E56" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000005E57" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000005E57" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="417.180" w="130.882" h="9.500" page="514" pagename="514"?>What makes a great leader?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000017582" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017582"> According to the <b>great-person theory,</b> leadership is a function of personal traits that qualify one to lead others. An alternative theory attributes leadership to being in the right place at the right time. According to the transactional view, traits of the leader and traits of the group interact with certain aspects of the situation to determine what kind of leader will come to the fore. Fred Fiedler’s <i>contingency theory</i> focused on two contrasting leadership styles: task oriented and relationship oriented. The effectiveness of each style depends on the nature of the task, the relationship of the leader with group members, and the leader’s power over the group.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000017583" data-uri="M14_MORR8923_11_SE_C14.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000017583"> The task-oriented leadership style typical of American businesses is being transformed through the introduction of a management style that emphasizes small work teams and input from all members of the group. Recent research indicates that women in leadership positions tend to have a more democratic, collaborative, and interpersonally oriented style of managing employees than do men in similar positions.</p></section></section></section></body></html>