<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xml:lang="en" lang="en" epub:prefix="index: http://www.index.com/"><head>
<meta name="dcterms.conformsTo" content="PXE Basic 1.0"/>
<meta name="generator" content="PXE Tools version 1.38.26c"/>
<!--Created by pxe.pl for pxe_basic version PXE Basic 1.0,data-profile-product=basic by PXE Tools 1.38.26c, partial=false-->
<title><?REGION x="48.000" y="417.551" w="131.416" h="18.000" page="410" pagename="410"?>Chapter Review </title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/theme/night.css"/><link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/theme/sepia.css"/></head><body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C10" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C10" class="conclusion level1"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C11" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C11" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="417.551" w="131.416" h="18.000" page="410" pagename="410"?><span class="label">Chapter Review </span></h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C12" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C12" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C13" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C13" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="445.887" w="91.691" h="12.000" page="410" pagename="410"?>Sources of Stress</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C14" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C14" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C15" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C15" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="463.702" w="86.306" h="9.500" page="410" pagename="410"?>What are stressors?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016963" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016963"> We experience <b>stress</b> when we are faced with a tense or threatening situation that requires us to change or adapt our behavior (a <b>stressor</b>). Life-and-death situations, like war and natural disasters, are inherently stressful. Even events that are usually viewed as positive, like a wedding or a job promotion, can be stressful, because they require change, adaptation, and <b>adjustment.</b> How we adjust to the stress affects our health, since prolonged or severe stress can contribute to physical and psychological disorders.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C17" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C17" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C18" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C18" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="589.702" w="183.230" h="9.500" page="410" pagename="410"?>Why is change so stressful for most people?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016964" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016964"> Because most people strongly desire order in their lives, any good or bad event involving change will be experienced as stressful.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C1A" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C1A" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C1B" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C1B" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="631.702" w="206.254" h="9.500" page="410" pagename="410"?>How can everyday hassles contribute to stress?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016965" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016965"> Day-to-day petty annoyances and irritations can be as stressful as major life events, because these seemingly minor incidents give rise to feelings of pressure, frustration, conflict, and anxiety.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000016966" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016966"> When we experience <b>pressure</b> from either internal or external forces, we feel forced to intensify our efforts or to perform at higher levels. Internal forces include trying to live up to social and cultural norms as well as family and peer expectations.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000016967" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016967"> We feel frustrated when someone or something stands between us and our goal. Five basic sources of <b>frustration</b> are delays, lack of resources, losses, failure, and discrimination.</p>
<p id="P7000493190000000000000000016968" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016968"> <b>Conflict</b> arises when we are faced with two or more incompatible demands, opportunities, needs, or goals. With <b>approach/approach conflict,</b> a person must either choose between two attractive but incompatible goals or opportunities, or modify them so as to take some advantage of both. With <b>avoidance/avoidance conflict,</b> a person must choose between two undesirable or threatening possibilities. If escape is impossible, the person may often vacillate between the two possibilities. With <b>approach/avoidance conflict,</b> a person is both attracted to and repelled by the same goal or opportunity. Because the desire to approach and the desire to avoid the goal both grow stronger as the person in this dilemma nears the goal, eventually the tendency to approach equals the tendency to avoid. The person then vacillates until finally making a decision or until the situation changes.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C20" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C20" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C21" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C21" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="702.887" w="118.329" h="9.500" page="410" pagename="410"?>How do we create stress?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016969" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016969"> Sometimes we subject ourselves to stress by internalizing a set of irrational, self-defeating beliefs that add unnecessarily to the normal stresses of living.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C23" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C23" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C24" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C24" epub:type="title"><span class="pagebreak" title="411" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C25" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C25" epub:type="pagebreak"/><?REGION x="54.000" y="51.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="411" pagename="411"?>Do people who are resistant to stress share certain <?REGION x="54.000" y="63.180" w="22.154" h="9.500" page="411" pagename="411"?>traits?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001696A" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001696A"> People who cope well with stress tend to be self-confident and optimistic. With their internal locus of control, they also see themselves as being able to affect their situations. Stress-resistant people share a trait called <i>hardiness—</i>a tendency to experience difficult demands as challenging rather than threatening. <i>Resilience,</i> the ability to bounce back after a stressful event, is also related to positive adjustment.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C27" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C27" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C28" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C28" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="171.365" w="103.619" h="12.000" page="411" pagename="411"?>Coping with Stress</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C29" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C29" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C2A" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C2A" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="190.180" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="411" pagename="411"?>What is the difference between direct coping and defen<?REGION x="54.000" y="202.180" w="50.155" h="9.500" page="411" pagename="411"?>sive coping?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001696B" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001696B"> People generally adjust to stress in one of two ways: <i>Direct coping</i> describes any action people take to change an uncomfortable situation, whereas <i>defensive coping</i> denotes the various ways people convince themselves—through a form of self-deception—that they are not really threatened or do not really want something they cannot get.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C2C" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C2C" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C2D" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C2D" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="279.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="411" pagename="411"?>What are three strategies that deal directly with stress?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001696C" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001696C">  When we confront a stressful situation and admit to ourselves that there is a problem that needs to be solved, we may learn new skills, enlist other people’s aid, or try harder to reach our goal. <b>Confrontation</b> may also include expressions of anger. <b>Compromise</b> usually requires adjusting expectations or desires; the conflict is resolved by settling for less than what was originally sought. Sometimes the most effective way of coping with a stressful situation is to distance oneself from it. The danger of <b>withdrawal,</b> however, is that it may become a maladaptive habit.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C2F" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C2F" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C30" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C30" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="54.000" y="416.180" w="206.176" h="9.500" page="411" pagename="411"?>What are the major ways of coping defensively?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001696D" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001696D"> When a stressful situation arises and there is little that can be done to deal with it directly, people often turn to defense mechanisms as a way of coping. <b>Defense mechanisms</b> are ways of deceiving ourselves about the causes of stressful events, thus reducing conflict, frustration, pressure, and anxiety. <b>Denial</b> is the refusal to acknowledge a painful or threatening reality. <b>Repression</b> is the blocking out of unacceptable thoughts or impulses from consciousness. When we cannot deny or repress a particular problem, we might resort to <b>projection</b>—attributing our repressed motives or feelings to others, thereby locating the source of our conflict outside ourselves. <b>Identification</b> may occur when people feel completely powerless. People who adopt this technique take on others’ characteristics to gain a sense of control or adequacy. People under severe stress sometimes revert to childlike behavior, called <b>regression.</b> Because adults can’t stand feeling helpless, becoming more childlike can make total dependency or helplessness more tolerable. A subtle form of denial is seen in <b>intellectualization,</b> when people emotionally distance themselves from a particularly disturbing situation. <b>Reaction formation</b> refers to a behavioral form of denial in which people express with exaggerated intensity ideas and emotions that are the opposite of their own. Through <b>displacement,</b> repressed motives and feelings are redirected from their original objects to substitute objects. <b>Sublimation</b> involves transforming repressed emotions into more socially accepted forms. Defensive coping can help us adjust to difficult circumstances, but it can also lead to maladaptive behavior if it interferes with our ability to deal constructively with a difficult situation.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C32" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C32" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C33" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C33" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="92.180" w="151.408" h="9.500" page="411" pagename="411"?>Who experiences the most stress?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001696E" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001696E"> How people handle stress is determined to a significant degree by the environment in which they live. People in low-income groups often experience more stress and have fewer personal and community resources to draw on for support as well as fewer coping strategies. Men and women may cope differently with stress.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C35" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C35" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C36" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C36" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="187.865" w="143.302" h="12.000" page="411" pagename="411"?>How Stress Affects Health</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C37" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C37" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C38" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C38" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="206.680" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="411" pagename="411"?>What long-lasting effects of stress do we need to <?REGION x="321.000" y="218.680" w="85.886" h="9.500" page="411" pagename="411"?>be concerned with?</h1></header><p id="P700049319000000000000000001696F" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P700049319000000000000000001696F"> <b>Health psychologists</b> try to find ways to prevent stress from becoming debilitating and to promote healthy behaviors. Physiologist Hans Selye contended that people react to physical and psychological stress in three stages. In Stage 1 (<i>alarm reaction</i>) of the <b>general adaptation syndrome (GAS),</b> the body recognizes that it must fight off some physical or psychological danger, resulting in quickened respiration and heart rate, increased sensitivity and alertness, and a highly charged emotional state—a physical adaptation that augments our coping resources and helps us to regain self-control. If direct or defensive coping mechanisms fail to reduce the stress, we progress to Stage 2 (<i>resistance stage</i>), during which physical symptoms of strain appear as we intensify our efforts to cope both directly and defensively. If these attempts to regain psychological equilibrium fail, psychological disorganization rages out of control until we reach Stage 3 (<i>exhaustion</i>). During this phase, we use increasingly ineffective defense mechanisms to bring the stress under control. At this point, some people lose touch with reality, whereas others show signs of “burnout,” such as shorter attention spans, irritability, procrastination, and general apathy.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C3A" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C3A" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C3B" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C3B" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="499.930" w="214.548" h="9.500" page="411" pagename="411"?>How is Type A behavior related to heart disease?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016970" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016970"> Stress is known to be an important factor in chemical changes in the body leading to the development of coronary heart disease (CHD). Research has demonstrated that the type A behavior pattern—characterized by impatience, hostility, urgency, competitiveness, and striving—predicts CHD.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C3D" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C3D" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C3E" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C3E" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="577.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="411" pagename="411"?>Why do so many students get sick during finals?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016971" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016971">  Stress—such as that experienced by students during examination periods—can suppress the functioning of the immune system, the focus of the relatively new field of <b>psychoneuroimmunology (PNI).</b> Stress can also increase one’s susceptibility to the common cold, and it appears to be linked to the development of some forms of cancer.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C40" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C40" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C41" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C41" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="672.865" w="88.151" h="12.000" page="411" pagename="411"?>Staying Healthy</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C42" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C42" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C43" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C43" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="321.000" y="691.680" w="239.837" h="9.500" page="411" pagename="411"?>What two key areas can people control to help them<?REGION x="321.000" y="703.680" w="83.204" h="9.500" page="411" pagename="411"?>selves stay healthy?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016972" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016972"> We can reduce the negative impact of stress on our health by trying to reduce stress and by maintaining a healthy lifestyle, which equips the body to cope with stress that is unavoidable.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C45" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C45" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C46" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C46" epub:type="title"><span class="pagebreak" title="412" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C47" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C47" epub:type="pagebreak"/><?REGION x="48.000" y="51.180" w="194.826" h="9.500" page="412" pagename="412"?>What steps can people take to reduce stress?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016973" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016973"> Exercising regularly and learning to relax reduce the body’s responses to stress. Having a strong network of social support is also related to healthier adjustment. Religious and altruistic people also typically experience less stress, although the mechanism involved is not clear. Finally, people can take steps to minimize the impact of stressful events (proactive coping), by making the best of difficult situations (positive reappraisal), and by maintaining a sense of humor.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C49" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C49" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C4A" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C4A" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="176.180" w="190.571" h="9.500" page="412" pagename="412"?>What are the elements of a healthy lifestyle?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016974" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016974"> The <i>positive psychology</i> movement has prompted many psychologists to promote good health by adopting a healthier lifestyle. Eating a well-balanced diet, getting regular exercise, not smoking, and avoiding high-risk behaviors are all important to maintaining health.</p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C4C" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C4C" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C4D" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C4D" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="259.365" w="79.535" h="12.000" page="412" pagename="412"?>Extreme Stress</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C4E" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C4E" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C4F" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C4F" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="278.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="412" pagename="412"?>How does extreme stress differ from everyday <?REGION x="48.000" y="290.180" w="24.262" h="9.500" page="412" pagename="412"?>stress?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016975" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016975"> People experiencing extreme stress cannot continue their everyday life as they did before the stress and, in some cases, they never fully recover.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C51" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C51" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C52" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C52" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="48.000" y="331.180" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="412" pagename="412"?>What are some sources of extreme stress, and what <?REGION x="48.000" y="343.180" w="96.964" h="9.500" page="412" pagename="412"?>impact do they have?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016976" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016976"> Extreme stress derives from a number of sources, including unemployment, divorce and separation, bereavement, combat, and natural catastrophes. One of the impediments to effective coping occurs when a grieving person feels compelled to adjust in socially prescribed ways that do not provide effective relief.</p></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C54" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C54" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C55" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C55" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="104.680" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="412" pagename="412"?>What experiences can lead to posttraumatic stress <?REGION x="315.000" y="116.680" w="36.413" h="9.500" page="412" pagename="412"?>disorder?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016977" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016977"> Extreme traumas may result in <b>posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD),</b> a disabling emotional disorder whose symptoms include daytime flashbacks, social and occupational withdrawal, sleeplessness, and nightmares. Combat veterans and people with a history of emotional problems are especially vulnerable to PTSD. A few particularly stable individuals experience a <i>positive</i> form of personal growth following extreme trauma called <b>posttraumatic growth (PTG).</b> </p></section></section>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C57" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C57" class="level2"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C58" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C58" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="239.865" w="143.039" h="12.000" page="412" pagename="412"?>The Well-Adjusted Person</h1></header>
<section id="P7000493190000000000000000004C59" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C59" class="level3"><header><h1 class="title" id="P7000493190000000000000000004C5A" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000004C5A" epub:type="title"><?REGION x="315.000" y="258.680" w="243.000" h="9.500" page="412" pagename="412"?>What qualities describe a well-adjusted person?</h1></header><p id="P7000493190000000000000000016978" data-uri="M11_MORR8923_11_SE_C11.xhtml#P7000493190000000000000000016978"> Psychologists disagree on what constitutes good adjustment. Some believe that well-adjusted people live according to social norms. Others disagree, arguing that well-adjusted people enjoy overcoming challenging situations and that this ability leads to growth and self-fulfillment. Finally, some psychologists use specific criteria to evaluate a person’s ability to adjust, such as how well the adjustment solves the problem and satisfies both personal needs and the needs of others.</p></section></section></section></body></html>